AND WELCOME
TO THE MARCH 5TH MEETING OF THE
REGULAR MEETING OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MOOK'S CULLEY WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL LOUDER?
YES, I'LL TRY TO BE CLOSER.
THANK YOU SHIRLEY.
I'M HERE MISSOURI HERE
SECRETARY WISCH WE'RE
PROFESSIONALS HERE.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT NOTED AS
ABSENT THIS EVENING COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH HERE OUR CLERK
HERE, MR. WETHERBEE HERE AND
COMMISSIONER ADAMS, WOULD YOU
REQUIRE GREAT MAY I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOTION BY COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBY AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR PLEASE SAY I BUY ALL
THOSE AND OPPOSED SEEING NONE
THE MOTION CARRIES.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE FEBRUARY
TWENTY SECOND TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR MOVE BY COMMISSIONER OR A
COUNCIL MEMBER AND SECONDED
COMMISSIONER MILLS IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION?
PLEASE STAY I I AND HE OPPOSED
SEEING NONE THE MOTION CARRIES.
NEXT UP ARE REPORTS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
I WILL FIRST GO TO BAFF ANY
REPORT FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH I AGAIN FAIL TO
PREPARE BUT IT WAS NOT A BIG
MEETING LAST NIGHT AND I DON'T
REMEMBER ANYTHING AND I AM
GETTING A SECOND FROM MR.
LEONARD.
GOTCHA.
THANK YOU.
STAFF AND MANAGER LUNNER.
YES.
GOOD EVENING COMMISSION.
TWO ITEMS THAT I WANT TO DRAW
YOUR ATTENTION TO ONE FOR THE
WORK SESSION NEXT TO THE
TUESDAY WE HAVE A CONCEPT
DISCUSSION FOR A SITE PLAN AT
TWENTY EIGHT FIFTY FOUR STATE
THIS IS A LITTLE OVER TEN ACRES
A MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT.
IT'S THE SITE OF THE SEVEN
SEVEN SEVEN BUILDING IN
PROGRESS BUILDING.
THIS WOULD BE A PROPOSED A
PRETTY LARGE SCALE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT IN RTC ONE DISTRICT
SO THEY ARE GOING TO BE COMING
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
I AM ALSO GOING TO BE
RECOMMENDING THAT WE THAT'S THE
ONLY ITEM ON THAT AGENDA THAT
WE ALTER THE STARTING TIME
OF THAT WORK SESSION TO EIGHT
O'CLOCK.
THE REASON FOR THAT IS TO GIVE
ALL OF YOU A LITTLE BIT MORE
CUSHION FOR THE FIRST AND
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC OF THREE
DAYS OF PUBLIC WORKSHOPS THAT
WILL BE HELD NEXT WEEK.
WE ARE DOING A SERIES OF JOINT
PUBLIC WORKSHOPS AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
THE WORKSHOPS WILL BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, MARCH 12TH AT FOUR
O'CLOCK TO SEVEN THIRTY WITH A
PRESENTATION AT SIX O'CLOCK PM
A MARCH 13 FROM TEN AT TWO
O'CLOCK PM AND THURSDAY MARCH
14TH TO SESSIONS TEN THIRTY TO
ONE O'CLOCK PM AND THEN FOUR
O'CLOCK TO SEVEN THIRTY PM WITH
A PRESENTATION AT SIX O'CLOCK.
AT ALL THESE WORKSHOPS THE
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WILL BE
ALLOWED TO BE PROVIDED THE
OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN MORE AND
PROVIDE FEEDBACK ON MULTIPLE
CITY PLANNING INITIATIVES.
ONE IS OF COURSE A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THE SECOND IS THE DOWNTOWN AREA
CIRCULATION STUDY AND ALSO THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DEVELOPMENT AND TIF PLANS.
WE'RE REALLY EXCITED TO PROVIDE
THIS KIND OF THREE AND ONE
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE PUBLIC.
THANK YOU.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
OR COMMITTEE LIAISONS
COMMISSIONER APRON'S I JUST
WANT TO REPORT AS THE CHAIR
OF THE ORDINARY CITIZENS
COMMITTEE THAT WE DID NOT MEET
LAST WEEK.
THE MEETING WAS POSTPONED TO
ALLOW US TO HAVE MORE TIME TO
HAVE A SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSION
ABOUT UH ZONING.
SO WE WILL MEET AGAIN IN MAY
AND JUST A REMINDER THAT OUR
MONTHLY MEETINGS ARE NOW EVERY
OTHER MONTH TO MAKE ROOM FOR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
THANKS.
THANK YOU TO OTHER COMMITTEE
LIAISONS.
ANYTHING TO REPORT SEEING NONE
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKAGE.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER SIX WHICH IS
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP AT THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED ON THIS AGENDA.
SO IF YOU YOU WILL HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK ON EVERY
SINGLE AGENDA AS THEY COME, I
WILL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISE HAND FEATURE IF YOU'RE
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK THE
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND UNDER
MEETING ID NUMBER NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS WHO'VE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DAYS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT SAYING
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE TURN OFF ANY MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND TURN OFF ANY
TELEVISION BACKGROUND NOISES SO
THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
.
YES PLEASE.
THANK I WANT TO FIRST TAKE ALL
OF YOU FOR YOUR WORK AND
LEADERSHIP OF THE CITY AND FOR
LETTING US COME AND SPEAK
TODAY.
HI MY NAME IS BRIAN DONOVAN
ACTUALLY DON'T LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR.
I LIVE IN HIGHLAND PARK,
MICHIGAN TO A SIX MONTH STREET
BUT I WORK AND IN ANN ARBOR I
MANAGE THE I'M THE GENERAL
MANAGER FOR THE INTER
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL WHICH IS
STUDENT HOUSING COOPERATIVE GOT
STARTED IN NINETEEN THIRTY TWO
AND WE INCORPORATED IN NINETEEN
FORTY FOUR TO BUY OUR FIRST
BUILDING TODAY WE GOT NINETEEN
PROPERTIES IN AND AROUND THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN WITH
HOUSES AND ALL BUT ONE OF THE
DIFFERENT COUNCIL WARDS MONTHLY
CHARGES FOR OUR FIVE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY MEMBERS WHO LIVE IN
OUR PROPERTIES RANGE FROM FOUR
HUNDRED AND NINETY THREE FOR A
SHARED ROOM IN NORTH CAMPUS TO
ONE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FOUR A TWO BEDROOM
APARTMENT ON KINGSLY AND ALL
CONTRACTS INCLUDE UTILITIES AS
WELL AS HIGH SPEED INTERNET
AFFORDABILITY AS A TOP PRIORITY
FOR THE ICC.
AND WE KNOW IT'S IMPORTANT TO
THE PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR TO WE
HAVE RESEARCHED HOW SEVERAL
CITIES ENABLE GROUP LIVE IN
COOPERATIVES LIKE US TO PROSPER
AND GROW THAT WE WILL SHARE
WITH YOU THEIR ZONING AND USE
CODES FROM US CITIES.
WE'RE ALSO INTERESTED IN
INNOVATIONS THAT PROVIDE
PERMANENT OR VERY LONG TERM
AFFORDABILITY FOR RESIDENTS
WHETHER THEY'RE LIVING TOGETHER
IN THE LARGE HOUSE OR NOT.
AND I WANT TO PARTICULARLY
HIGHLIGHT WORK DONE IN
WASHINGTON DC.
AUSTIN, TEXAS AND CINCINNATI,
OHIO IN WASHINGTON DC THE
TENANT OPPORTUNITY FOR PURCHASE
ACT HAS BEEN IN PLACE FOR FORTY
YEARS AND IT ALLOWS IT REQUIRES
NOTICE WHEN A LANDLORD IS GOING
TO SELL A PROPERTY TO THE
TENANT WITH THE TENANTS HAVE A
CHANCE TO PUT TOGETHER A BID.
THERE'S MORE THAN 16000
PROPERTIES THAT HAVE BEEN
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES THAT HAVE
BEEN CREATED OR PRESERVED
THROUGH THE TOPA IN THE LAST 40
YEARS.
THE SECOND ONE IS THE
UNIVERSITY NEIGHBORHOOD
OVERLAY.
THIS IS AN AUSTIN IT STARTED IN
2004.
IT'S THEIR MOST SUCCESSFUL
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM
PROVIDING MORE UNITS THAN ALL
OF THEIR OTHER PROGRAMS
COMBINED OFFER STUDENTS IT'S AN
OPTIONAL UP SOMETHING THAT
REQUIRES LONG TERM
AFFORDABILITY AS WELL AS A FEE
IN LIEU IF YOU DON'T GO TO MORE
DEEPLY AFFORDABLE UNITS.
THE LAST THING I WANT TO
MENTION IS FROM CINCINNATI
THAT'S CALLED RENTER EQUITY.
IT'S DEVELOPED BY RENTING
PARTNERSHIPS AND THEY PUT IT
TOGETHER WHEN THEY WERE
MANAGING A LOW INCOME HOUSING
TAX CREDIT PROJECT AND IT'S A
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM THAT
ALLOWS TENANTS THROUGH TENURE
AND PARTICIPATION IN
MAINTAINING THE BUILDING AND
ATTENDING MEETINGS FOR THE
ORGANIZATION TO BUILD EQUITY
AND THEY CAN EARN UP TO TEN
THOUSAND DOLLARS OVER TEN YEARS
IF THEY PAY ON TIME AND DO ALL
OF THEIR WORK.
ALL OF THIS ACTUAL SAVINGS.
SO THEY'RE THEY'RE BUDGETING
FOR REGULAR PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
COSTS BUT BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT
TURNING OVER AND HELPING OUT,
THEY GET A SHARE OF THAT MONEY.
SO WE'RE INTERESTED IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS,
EXCITED TO BE ABLE TO SHARE
WITH YOU.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
MEMBERS OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
MY NAME IS BRIAN PAGONE.
I'M A RESIDENT OF FIFTEEN OR
SEVEN WASHINGTON AVENUE WHICH
IS ALSO KNOWN AS SOJOURNER
TRUTH COOPERATIVE HOUSE.
IT'S IN WAR TO A STUDENT RUN
COOPERATIVE HOUSE.
PART OF THE ANSWER COOPERATIVE
COUNCIL AND AS MY COLLEAGUE
MENTIONED, THE ICC IS A
COOPERATIVELY RUN NONPROFIT
HOUSING CORPORATION WHERE THE
MEMBERS OWN AND COLLECTIVELY
MANAGE THE OPERATIONS OF THE
ORGANIZATION.
WE COLLECTIVELY SET UTILITY
CHARGES AND PROVIDE SERVICES TO
OUR MEMBERS.
IT'S A PLACE WHERE PEOPLE CAN
BECOME COOPERATIVE LEADERS AND
STEWARDS OF THEIR COMMUNITY AND
WHERE YOU NOT JUST BUY A PLACE
TO LIVE BUT YOU BUY A PLACE
INTO A COMMUNITY AND INTO A
LARGER COOPERATIVE VISION.
YEARS AGO I JOINED THE ICC IN
ORDER TO COMPLETE MY
UNDERGRADUATE U OF M AND I STAY
IN THE ICC NOW BECAUSE I WANT
TO CONTINUE TO CONTRIBUTE TO
THE COOPERATIVE MOVEMENT AND I
WANT TO HELP STEWARD ITS GROWTH
.
HOWEVER, IN THE PURSUIT OF OUR
MISSION WE FACE MANY REAL
CHALLENGES.
THE CURRENT ZONING CODE MAKES
IT DIFFICULT FOR THE ICC TO
STEWARD OUR PROPERTIES TO
CONTINUE TO EXPAND.
STUDENT COOPERATIVES ARE NOT
PERMITTED IN ANY RESIDENTIAL
ZONES EXCEPT BY A SPECIAL
EXEMPTION USE IN EITHER THE RTR
FOUR ZONES TO GET A CITY WITHIN
THE ZONES THERE MUST BE EIGHT
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET OF LA AREA FIVE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET OF FOUR AREA AND
THREE HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE FEET
OF AREA PER OCCUPANT.
MANY OF OUR PROPERTIES HAVE
BEEN GRANDFATHERED INTO THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
NINE OF THE EIGHTEEN ICC OWNED
PROPERTIES ARE NON-COMPLIANT
WITH THE ZONING
CODE DISALLOWING US FROM
PROLONGING THE LIVES OF OUR
HOUSES AND EACH YEAR AS OUR
HOUSES GET OLDER IT BECOMES
MORE AND MORE IMPORTANT THAT
WE'RE ABLE TO MAKE THE
NECESSARY CHANGES TO PROLONG
THEIR LIVES OR TO PURCHASE NEW
PROPERTIES.
AND IN ORDER TO DO SO WE ASK
YOU TO CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING
RECOMMENDATIONS TO BRING THE
EXISTING ICC PROPERTIES IN THE
ZONING COMPLIANCE.
WE RECOMMEND ELIMINATING THE
MINIMUMS FOR LARGE SIZE AND
SQUARE FOOTAGE FOR STUDENT
COOPERATIVE HOUSING USES FOR
THE FIRST SEASON AND TO ENABLE
ICC EXPANSION DENSIFICATION WE
RECOMMEND PERMITTING STUDENT
COOPERATIVE HOUSING FOR
RESIDENTIAL ZONES BY RATE.
THIS WILL PUT THE ICC ON A
LEVEL PLAYING FIELD IF
INVESTORS ABSENTEE LANDLORDS AS
THE ICC HAS TO DO EXTRA COSTS
AND DELAYS TO BE ALLOWED TO
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE UNITS IN
RESIDENTIAL ZONES AND THE ICC
ALSO REQUIRES TO BE PERMITTED
TO OPERATE GROUP HOUSING IN OUR
ONE HOUR TO AN HOUR THREE ZONES
NEAR THE UNIVERSITY AND TRANSIT
HUBS AND WE ALSO STRONGLY
ENCOURAGE THE CITY TO ELIMINATE
THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF UNRELATED
PEOPLE THAT SHARE A UNIT AND
HOUSE.
THANK YOU ALL FOR LISTENING TO
OUR CONSIDERATION TODAY AND WE
LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING WITH
YOU AS AN ORGANIZATION IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
WELCOME.
HELLO.
I AM ALEX ZILLMAN.
I LIVE IN WARD TWO ON WASHTENAW
AVENUE ALSO A TREE HOUSE IN THE
ICC AND THOUGH THE ICC IS
PRIMARILY MADE UP OF U OF M
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS, WE ALSO
SERVE MANY GRADUATE STUDENTS
STUDENTS FROM WCC IN EASTERN
AND NONSTUDENTS THE ICC HAS
ALSO BEGUN IDENTIFYING AND
PRIORITIZING APPLICANTS WHO
DEMONSTRATE FINANCIAL NEED
DURING CONTRACT SIGNING THE ICC
HOUSE CHARGES TYPICALLY AMOUNT
TO ABOUT EIGHT HUNDRED EIGHT
HUNDRED AND TWENTY DOLLARS A
MONTH FOR SOCIALIZED HOUSING,
UTILITIES, GROCERIES AND
EDUCATIONAL AND LEADERSHIP
OPPORTUNITIES.
WE ALSO PROVIDE NEED BASED
CHARGE REDUCTIONS TO THOSE WHO
QUALIFY AND I'M SPEAKING WITH
YOU ALL TONIGHT TO SHARE OUR
STRUGGLE TO EXPAND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING OPTIONS IN ANN ARBOR.
SO HISTORICALLY THE ICC HAS
EXPANDED BY PURCHASING SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES AND STUDENT RENTAL
PROPERTIES AND INTERNALLY
DENSIFYING THEM AS GROUP
HOUSING.
HOWEVER, ABOUT HALF OF OUR
PROPERTIES ARE GRANDFATHERED AS
THEY ARE NOT COMPLIANT WITH THE
CURRENT ZONING STANDARDS SET
FOR STUDENT COOPERATIVES
PRIMARILY FLOOR AREA AND LOFT
SIZE MINIMUMS SET IN PLACE.
THAT WAY WE MAY ONLY OPERATE
HOMES THAT RESEMBLE LARGE GRADE
HOUSES.
WE CAN'T OPERATE A NEW
NON-COMPLIANT PROPERTY WITH
MORE THAN SIX UNRELATED
RESIDENTS MAKING MONEY
EXPANSION OPPORTUNITIES
INFEASIBLE IF WE WISH TO REMAIN
BELOW THE MARKET RATE AND WE'RE
ALSO UNABLE TO FIND NEW
PROPERTIES TO EXPAND INTO THAT
MEET OUR ZONING STANDARDS GROUP
LIVING AND ARE ROUTINELY FORCED
TO REJECT OPPORTUNITIES TO
EXPAND INTO NON-COMPLIANT
PROPERTIES ON THE MARKET EVEN
IF WE WERE TO FIND A COMPLIANT
PROPERTY CONDITIONAL USE
REQUIREMENT FOR US TO JUMP
THROUGH ADDITIONAL HOOPS AND
EXPAND THE RESOURCES BEFORE
EVEN KNOWING IF WE'LL BE
ALLOWED TO OPERATE A NEW
PROPERTY AND IF THESE ZONING
RESTRICTIONS HAD EXISTED IN
NINETEEN THIRTY THEN WE WOULD
HAVE NEVER BEEN ESTABLISHED OR
EXIST TODAY.
SO WE DO HAVE A LIST OF TASKS
TO MAKE OUR PROPERTIES
COMPLIANT AND TO MAKE OUR
EXPANSION FEASIBLE NAMELY
ELIMINATING THE MINIMUM SIZE
REQUIREMENTS FOR OUR ZONING
USE, ELIMINATING THE MAXIMUM
NUMBER OF UNRELATED RESIDENTS
WHO CAN LIVE TOGETHER IN A HOME
AND ALSO INVESTIGATING THE
UNIVERSITY NEIGHBORHOOD OVERLAY
ORDINANCE FROM AUSTIN, TEXAS TO
COLLECT FEES AND LOSE TO
SUPPORT AFFORDABLE STUDENT
HOUSING AND TO INVESTIGATE THE
TENANTS OPERATING TO PURCHASE
ACT FROM WASHINGTON DC TO GIVE
TENANTS THE RIGHT OF FIRST
REFUSAL TO PURCHASE THEIR HOME
FROM THEIR LANDLORD.
I PASS OUT INFO PACKETS TO
EVERYONE WITH MORE INFORMATION
FOR YOU ALL WOULD LOVE TO MEET
AND TALK MORE ABOUT THIS AND
ANSWER QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT?
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION
.
ALL RIGHT.
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
THERE IS ONE HAND RAISED
PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE THREE FOR
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION
.
THIS IS MORE COMMON THAN ARBOR
DEPUTED FROM THE USE SCHOOL AND
I DON'T THINK IT CAN BE USED OR
ABUSED LATER THIS EVENING WE'LL
DISCUSS THE REZONING AND SEE
ONE REAL TV.
LET'S REVIEW SOME OF THE USE
AND MUSICAL PIECE SHOULD NOT BE
USED FOR AN APPROPRIATE ZONING
CATEGORY AND IN THIS CASE IT
WILL BE ONE AND QUOTE NO, I'M
NOT TALKING ABOUT THE POINT
OF THAT ACCURATELY
ANTHROPOGENIC CAPITAL.
THIS SUBJECT AND THIS ONE IS
THROUGH EDUCATION PROFESSOR, I
THOUGHT SHE WAS CORRECT IN THE
FIRST HALF OF THE STATEMENT AND
AFTER THE SECOND BUT THAT IS
ONLY ONE OF MANY AREAS THAT LED
TO THAT PROJECT AND
APPROPRIATELY ASKED YOU WHAT
THEY ARE WITH PARENTS.
WE CONDITIONS I THINK THAT HAD
BEEN APPROVED OF THE PREVIOUS
ONE WOULD BE GETTING THIRTY TWO
YEARS BEFORE WE MILLION AND A
QUARTER OF TONIGHT.
I FORGET TO RECONCILE THAT WITH
PENNICOTT CONSISTENCY IS
IMPORTANT IN ZONING LAW TO ALL
THE DETAILS RIGHT NOW I HAVE
TIME ABOUT HOW TO HELP THE
DEVELOPER KEEP MODEL HOW OUT
OF THE NINE MILLION OR NINETY
THREE MILLION APPEARED AND MORE
IMPORTANTLY THE TEAM I WILL
REMIND PEOPLE THE VOICES WERE
VERY CLAIMING PLEASE YOU THESE
WERE NOT VIABLE.
BUT JUST A MONTH LATER THE CITY
APPROVED THE POPULAR AND THAT
CONTRIBUTED ABOUT A HALF
MILLION AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
53 IS VITALLY IMPORTANT AND
GOING LAWS AND OTHER PROJECTS
THAT WERE APPROVED LATER SPDM
THEY'RE BOTH PROVIDING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS OR
THEY WOULD BE INAPPROPRIATE USE
OF THE FORCE IF HE LEFT
WASHINGTON.
I DON'T NEED YOUR CITATION FROM
THE UDC THAT I READ WHEN I WOKE
UP ABOUT A YEAR AGO WITH REGARD
TO THE UDC THAT IF HE NOT BE
ALLOWED WELL NOT PRIMARILY TO
AVOID THE IMPOSITION
OF FAMILIES AND REQUIREMENTS
OF THE DEMOCRAT OR OTHER CITY
REGULATIONS.
I GUESS THE ARTICLE ON THAT
WOULD BE VERY INCONSISTENT WITH
USING AND ABUSING OR
INAPPROPRIATELY APD.
WE NEED TO RECONCILE ON THAT.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER REMOTE
CALLERS
?
THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS RAISED
TO THIS TIME.
THANK YOU BUT THAT I WILL CLOSE
OUT PUBLIC COMMENT SECTION SIX
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER SEVEN THIS THE
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING STAFF
.
THERE'S NO PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED AT THIS TIME.
THE TUESDAY MARCH NINETEENTH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR REGULAR
SESSION HAS BEEN CANCELED.
THE REASON FOR THAT IS BECAUSE
WE'RE WORKING THROUGH DETAILS
WITH PETITIONS OF WHICH WE DO
HAVE MANY ACTIVE PETITIONS BUT
WE WANT TO BRING CLEAN
PROPOSALS TO THE TABLE WITHOUT
THE NEED FOR ADDING CONDITIONS
TO YOUR EMOTIONS.
SO TO GIVE US TIME TO DO THAT,
WE WE MADE SOME DECISIONS TO
CANCEL TENTATIVE ITEMS SO THERE
ARE NO PUBLIC HEARINGS.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO SECTION EIGHT
EIGHT WHICH IS UNFINISHED
BUSINESS THERE ARE NONE SO
WE'LL MOVE RIGHT ON TO REGULAR
BUSINESS.
I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE A
PETITION THIS IS FIVE OH THREE
MILLER AVENUE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL.
THIS IS A REQUEST TO ALLOW A
CHILD CARE CENTER LIMITED TO
FORTY SEVEN CHILDREN AND
FIFTEEN STAFF.
THE EXISTING THIRTY TWO HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT STRUCTURE IS TO BE
RENOVATED AND NO NEW
DEVELOPMENT IS PROPOSED.
THE SITE SIZE IS EIGHT THOUSAND
FOUR HUNDRED FORTY SEVEN.
THE ZONING DESIGNATION IS
ARCUDI TO TWO FAMILY DWELLING
AND THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO PETITIONER
PRESENTATION WITH MY DAUGHTER.
HELLO.
HI WELCOME.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ATAH HASTLER I USE
SHE HER PRONOUNS AND I'M THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF APPLE
PLAY SCHOOLS.
I'M HERE WITH BOB OVER HISER
OF ARCHITECTS DESIGN GROUP TED
HIRSCH OF MIDWESTERN
CONSULTING.
MR. MAIRIE REPRESENTING NEW
HOPE BAPTIST CHURCH THE
BUILDING OWNER AND FROM APPLE
PLAY SCHOOLS I'M JOINED BY JEFF
WILKERSON, THE CHAIR OF OUR
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AS WELL AS
BRITTNY MARIE-JO, OUR
DEVELOPMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS
COORDINATOR SHARING SOME IMAGES
ONLINE.
OUR NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION
APPLE PLAY SCHOOLS CURRENTLY
OPERATES THREE LICENSE EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTERS IN ANN ARBOR
INCLUDING MANZANITA SPANISH
IMMERSION PLAYSKOOL AND GREEN
APPLE GARDEN OUTDOOR IMMERSION
SCHOOL AS WELL AS SCOUTS
COMMUNITY IMMERSION SUMMER CAMP
PROGRAM.
WE'RE REQUESTING APPROVAL
OF SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE TO
OPEN AND OPERATE A CHILD
DAYCARE OH THREE MILLER APP
SHOWN HERE AT THE CORNER
OF MILLER AND CHEAP STREET BY
BOTH THREE MILLER AS WAS STATED
,IS CURRENTLY ZONED ARTILLERY
AND SPECIAL EXCEPTION USED WAS
GRANTED PREVIOUSLY TO OPERATE
AN ADULT DAYCARE AND COMMUNITY
HEALTH CLINIC SITE.
WE HAVE BEEN OPERATING CHILD
CARE CENTER UNDER SIMILAR
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USED JUST
DOWN THE STREET AT 511 MILLER
AVENUE SINCE TWENTY FOURTEEN IF
SMU IS APPROVED OUR PLAN IS TO
RENOVATE THE EXISTING BUILDING
AT FIVE OH THREE MILLER TO
BRING IT UP TO
CODE PARTICULARLY STATE
CODE REGARDING FIRE SAFETY AND
EGRESS OR CHILD CARE CENTERS
AND PROVIDE FORTY SEVEN NEW
CHILD CARE SPOTS WITH
APPROXIMATELY TEN TO 15 ADULT
STAFF PRESENT DAILY WE'VE
WORKED WITH THE LANDLORD NEW
HOPE BAPTIST CHURCH FOR NEARLY
A DECADE WHEN WE STARTED
EXPLORING WAYS TO BETTER MEET
THE DIRE NEED FOR CHILD CARE IN
OUR COMMUNITY, THE CHURCH
LEADERS RECOMMENDED WE RENOVATE
THE BUILDING AND PUT IT BACK TO
USE FOR THE COMMUNITY AFTER
SITTING MOSTLY UNUSED FOR
SEVERAL YEARS, SEVERAL KEY
BUSINESSES ARE LOCATED RIGHT ON
THIS CORNER WHICH ANCHORS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD NIGHTS MARKET AND
BIG CITY SMALL WORLD BAKERY AS
WELL AS THE CHURCH WHICH HAS
DECADES OF LEADERSHIP IN THE
COMMUNITY AND WE BELIEVE A
CHILD CARE WOULD ADD TO THAT
FOR APPLE PLAYSKOOL BY THREE
MILA'S PROXIMITY TO THESE
BUSINESSES AS WELL AS TO WEST
PARK OUR GUEST CAN'T STOP ON
LIBERTY THE FARMER'S MARKET
MILLER NATURE AREA, THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY MEANS WE HAVE
BUS AND WALKING ACCESS FOR
CHILDREN TO BE OUT IN THE
COMMUNITY.
BEING IMMERSED IN COMMUNITY AS
AN ASSET IS AN ESSENTIAL PART
OF OUR CURRICULUM AS A REGGIO
EMILIA INSPIRED CENTER BUT IT'S
ALSO JUST GOOD FOR KIDS.
THERE'S AMPLE OFF STREET
PARKING BOTH IN THE AUXILIARY
LOT WE CURRENTLY USE JUST TO
THE SOUTH OF THE PROPERTY AND
ACROSS THE STREET AT NEW HOPE
WHICH IS ACCESSIBLE BY A
CROSSWALK ACROSS CHAPMAN AT
MILLER AND THERE'S PROXIMITY TO
SEVERAL DIFFERENT PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION LINES AS WELL AS
THE FUTURE TREE LINE URBAN
TRAIL WHICH SUPPORT BOTH THE
CITIES AND APPLE PLAY SCHOOLS
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS.
THIS LOCATION IS ACCESSIBLE
READILY TO THE FAMILIES AND
STAFF WE SERVE.
CURRENTLY 20 PERCENT OF OUR
FAMILIES AND STAFF AT THE 511
LOCATION BUS LIKE BIKE OR WALK
TO SCHOOL.
WE PLAN TO ADD AT LEAST SIX
CLASS B BIKE PARKING SPOTS AT
OUR SISTER SITE FIVE 11 AS PART
OF THIS PROJECT AND OUR CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION MEETING WE HEARD
CONCERNS FROM NEIGHBORS ABOUT
THE NOISE DURING OUR WEEKDAY
BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND TO
ADDRESS THIS WE WILL INCLUDE
SOME PLANTINGS AND HAVE OTHER
IDEAS TO CREATE VISUAL AND
SOUND BUFFER BETWEEN THE
OUTDOOR PLAY AREAS AND THE
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES.
AND WE'RE HAPPY TO CONSIDER
OTHER INPUT AS WE FIGURE OUT
HOW BEST TO BE GOOD NEIGHBORS.
WE'RE REQUIRED TO INSTALL A NEW
HYDRANT FOR THESE OPERATIONS AS
WELL AS INDICATED IN OUR PLANS
AND WE PLAN TO RUN THE LINES
FOR THE HYDRANT OFF OR ACROSS
TREATMENTS STREET THANKS
BRITTANY BEFORE I AND I WANT TO
PROVIDE SOME IMPORTANT CONTEXT
FOR THE PROJECT AND OUR SPECIAL
SECTION USE REQUEST IN ADDITION
TO MY WORK AT APPLE PLAYSKOOL I
ALSO SERVE ON THE LEVINGSTON
WASHTENAW CHILD CARE PLANNING
COALITION WHICH FORMED LAST
YEAR TO STUDY THE CHILD CARE
CRISIS IN OUR AREA AND DEVELOP
SOLUTIONS FOR OUR COMMUNITY AND
I DON'T USE THE WORDS CHILD
CARE CRISIS LIGHTLY HERE IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY THERE ARE
ONLY ENOUGH LICENSED CHILD CARE
SPOTS FOR ONE OUT OF EVERY
SEVEN CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE
OF FIVE.
ONLY 40 PERCENT OF FAMILIES IN
OUR AREA HAVE ACCESS TO CHILD
CARE THAT MEETS THEIR NEEDS AND
CHILD CARE COSTS HERE ARE THE
HIGHEST IN THE STATE.
FAMILIES ARE PAYING MORE THAN
TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS A YEAR PER
CHILD TO HAVE THE CARE THAT
THEY DO HAVE EVEN IF IT DOESN'T
MEET THEIR NEEDS.
THIS LACK OF CHILD CARE IS
KEEPING PEOPLE OUT OF WORK AND
IMPACTING THEIR EARNING
CAPACITY OVER TIME AT BEST THIS
IS A SEISMIC LOSS TO OUR LOCAL
ECONOMY.
IN FACT, THE MICHIGAN CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE ESTIMATED LAST ALL
THAT MICHIGAN LOSES NEARLY
THREE BILLION DOLLARS IN
ECONOMIC ACTIVITY EVERY YEAR
DUE TO LACK OF CHILD CARE.
AT WORST THIS CRISIS WIDENS THE
ALREADY MASSIVE GAP IN RACIAL
AND GENDER EQUITY BY PRICING
CAREGIVERS OF COLOR AND WOMEN
OUT OF CHILD CARE SERVICES AND
THUS OUT OF OPPORTUNITIES TO
WORK TO ADVANCE THEIR CAREERS
OR TO BUILD ASSETS FOR THEIR
FAMILIES.
MEANWHILE, CHILD CARE WORKERS
IN WASHTENAW COUNTY EARN A
MEDIAN WAGE OF TWELVE DOLLARS
AND TWENTY THREE CENTS AN HOUR
A STARTLING THIRTY FOUR DOLLARS
BELOW LIVING WAGE THAT'S JUST
NOT GOOD ENOUGH FOR
PROFESSIONALS WHO ARE PROVIDING
SKILLED LABOR THAT THE REST
OF THE COMMUNITY DEPENDS ON TO
WORK THE CHILD CARE WE PROPOSE
TO OPEN AT FIVE OH THREE
MILLION WILL NOT ONLY PROVIDE
MORE CHILD CARE SPOTS AND ALLOW
US TO INCREASE SCHOLARSHIPS TO
THE COMMUNITY BUT IT WILL ALSO
OUR ORGANIZATION TO CONTINUE
IMPROVING COMPENSATION TO OUR
TEACHERS, CREATING HIGH QUALITY
JOBS AND ATTRACTING NEW CHILD
CARE EDUCATION TALENT TO OUR
AREA WITH OVER 40 PERCENT
OF OUR HOUSEHOLDS FALLING BELOW
THE THRESHOLD EXPANDING CHILD
CARE ACCESS AND PRIORITY CHILD
PRIORITIZING CHILD CARE
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ARE
ESSENTIAL STEPS THAT WE MUST
TAKE TOWARDS MEETING THE CITY'S
GOALS FOR EQUITY AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME
AND FOR CONSIDERING OUR REQUEST
FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION YOUTH.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO ANSWERING
ANY QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE
ABOUT THE PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO STAFF PRESENTATION
MISS THATCHER.
THANK YOU
.
LOOK, WE WILL DO PUBLIC COMMENT
RIGHT AFTER STAFF PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU, MISS THATCHER.
I'M GOING TO PUT BACK ON YOUR
SCREENS THE AERIAL PHOTO OF THE
SITE.
THIS IS THE ONE THAT'S IN THE
PACKET BUT I WANTED TO BRIEFLY
TOUCH ON A COUPLE OF THINGS.
THERE'S NO ON-STREET PARKING
REQUIRED BY CODE ON THE SITE.
NEVERTHELESS IT HAS A LOT
OF PARKING AND SINCE IT'S GOT
IT AND THEY USE IT, I WANTED TO
MAKE SURE THAT YOU WERE AWARE
OF IT.
SO THIS IS 583 MILLER ON THE
CORNER.
THIS IS A PRIVATELY OWNED
RESIDENTIAL HOME NEXT DOOR AND
NEXT DOOR IS AT FIVE ELEVEN IS
AN APPLE PLAY SCHOOLS EXISTING
PRESCHOOL THEY USE THE EMPTY
LOT AT FIVE FIFTEEN WHICH IS
OVER HERE AS THEIR PLAYGROUND.
IT'S A LITTLE HARD TO SEE HERE
BUT FIVE FIFTEEN REPS ALL THE
WAY AROUND THE BACK OF FIVE
ELEVEN AND THE NEIGHBOR FIVE OR
SEVEN AND A BUT HERE THE FIVE
OR THREE MILLER THAT'S AT THE
CORNER THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
TONIGHT THERE'S A SMALL PARKING
LOT RIGHT BEHIND FIVE OR THREE
MILLER THAT IS NOT SUPPOSED TO
BE USED FOR PARKING.
I ASSUME THAT WILL BE USED FOR
FOR KIDS FOR PLAYGROUND AREA
RIGHT NOW PARENTS ARE AND
CAREGIVERS ARE GOING INTO THE
PARKING LOT DOWN HERE THAT'S
OWNED BY NEW HOPE BAPTIST
CHURCH THAT ABUTS WEST PARK A
LITTLE BIT FARTHER TO THE SOUTH
YOU CAN PARK HERE WHERE YOU SEE
THESE CARS PARK AND WALK RIGHT
UP THIS PATH THROUGH THE BACK
TO GET TO A PLACE CALLED THE
EXISTING LOCATION.
SO THIS IS REALLY CONVENIENT TO
KEEP KIDS OFF THE STREET AS
MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
THERE ARE ALSO HOWEVER GOOD
SIDEWALKS IN FRONT OF MILLER
AND ALONG CHAPMAN THERE ARE
MARKED CROSSWALKS AT THE
INTERSECTIONS.
SO REALLY IN TERMS OF PARKING
OFF AND PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLINESS
THIS IS A PRETTY GOOD SITE FOR
THAT.
WE SHOULD LET'S SEE WE SHOULD
NOTE THAT THIS IS A
PARTICIPATION MEETING.
THERE WERE THREE NEIGHBORS I'M
SURE THREE MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC WHO ATTENDED.
I'M NOT SURE IF THEY WERE ALL
NEIGHBORS ARE JUST SOME
OF THEM.
THERE WERE NOISE CONCERNS
RAISED AND THE OWNER OR THE
OCCUPANT OF THE HOUSE THAT
WOULD BE SANDWICHED IN BETWEEN
THE TWO PRESCHOOLS HAD SOME
CONCERNS ABOUT ADDING MORE KIDS
TO THE MIX.
THIS IS A PRETTY BUSY STREET,
MILLER THERE'S QUITE A BIT
OF TRAFFIC.
IT'S CLOSE TO VERY CLOSE TO
SPRING STREET WHERE WE HAVE
NIGHTS AND A BAKERY AND THE
CHURCH IS RIGHT DOWN HERE.
SO THERE'S A LOT GOING ON ON
THIS CORNER AND I'VE TALKED TO
REPRESENTATIVES OF APPLE PLACE
SCHOOLS TO ADA WHO PRESENTED TO
TONIGHT.
SHE HAS ASSURED ME THAT THEY
WANT TO KEEP WORKING WITH THE
NEIGHBOR THAT WOULD BE IN
BETWEEN THE TWO PRESCHOOLS AND
DO WHAT THEY CAN.
THEY'VE ALREADY TAKEN SOME
STEPS TO MITIGATE SOME NOISE
THAT THEY HAD GOING ON AND
THEY'RE LOOKING AT WHAT ELSE
THEY CAN DO THAT'S NOT CODIFIED
ON THIS OF COURSE.
BUT WE HAVE HAD THOSE
CONVERSATIONS MEETING THE
SCHOOL STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
LIKE I SAID, THIS IS A PRETTY
INTENSE NEIGHBORHOOD AND I
DON'T THINK THAT THIS IS OUT
OF CHARACTER WITH THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD TURNING OVER TO
REMAIN UNCHANGED.
THE LAST THING THAT I WANT TO
TALK ABOUT IS BIKE PARKING.
THERE THERE'S THERE'S NO
DEVELOPMENT PROPOSED WITH THIS
SO THERE'S NO SITE PLAN.
THERE ARE SORT OF CIVIL
ENGINEERING PLANS ATTACHED ONLY
FOR INFORMATION BECAUSE WE ASK
FOR SOME SORT OF EXISTING
CONDITIONS PLAN WITH AN SIU
THAT DOESN'T HAVE DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSED.
SO AS SUCH THERE ISN'T BICYCLE
PARKING REQUIRED ON THE SITE.
BUT I STRONGLY SUGGESTED THAT
THEY PROVIDE BECAUSE THEY DO
HAVE PEOPLE THAT BIKE NOW TO
THEIR SITE AND THEY WERE VERY
AMENABLE TO THAT, TOOK AN
INVENTORY OF BOTH SITES AND
THOUGHT THAT THE BEST PLACE TO
PUT IT WOULD BE BEHIND THE
EXISTING PRESCHOOL BUT TO BE
SHARED BY BOTH PRESCHOOLS IF
THE NEW ONE IS APPROVED IT IS
ON THE EXISTING CONDITIONS PLAN
THAT THEY WOULD PROVIDE THIS BY
SEPTEMBER OF 2020 FIVE AFTER
THEY GET THE FIVE OR THREE
MILLION IN BETTER SHAPE AND
THERE WOULD BE SIX CLASS B
SPACES SHARED BETWEEN THE TWO.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT STRATH TO PUT
YOUR BIKE PARKING ON A
DIFFERENT SITE THAT YOU DON'T
OWN BUT SINCE THIS IS A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE ITS I DON'T THINK
THAT THAT IT'S DETRIMENTAL
SINCE THEY'LL BE USING BOTH
PROPERTIES AND GOING BETWEEN
THE TWO QUITE FREELY SHOULD
SOMEBODY ELSE WANT TO OCCUPY
THIS BUILDING THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT TONIGHT IN THE
FUTURE AND THEIR SPECIAL
EXCEPTION YOU SAYS YOU HAVE TO
GO TO FIVE ELEVEN MILLION FOR
BIKE PARKING.
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S NOT GOING TO
WORK AT THAT POINT WE WOULD
HAVE TO UPDATE THE SPECIFICS
OF NEWS OR JUST HAVE THEM
PROVIDE IT ON THE FINAL THREE
MILLER SITE THE CLASS B SPACES
THAT ARE REQUIRED AND WHO KNOWS
WHAT WILL BE REQUIRED BY THAT
TIME.
WELL, WE MIGHT WANT TO UPDATE
THE WHOLE THING SO STAFF DOES
RECOMMEND THAT THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION TO BE APPROVED WITH
CONDITIONS THE CONDITIONS ARE
THE CHILD CARE IS PROVIDED FOR
NO MORE THAN FORTY SEVEN
CHILDREN AND NO MORE THAN
FIFTEEN CAREGIVERS AND THAT THE
SIXTH CLASS B BICYCLE PARKING
SPACES WILL BE PROVIDED BY
SEPTEMBER THIRTY TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE AT FIVE ELEVEN MILLION FOR
SHARED USE WITH FIVE OR THREE
MILLION.
THANK THANK YOU.
WITH THAT WE WILL MOVE TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR
ITEM WE'LL FIRST CALL ON PEOPLE
THAT ARE PRESENT AND THEN ON TO
THE REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE A RAISED HAND FEATURE
OF VIEWING THROUGH THE UPLINK
AND FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
OF AVAILABLE HERE AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT SAYING THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA SO THAT WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
AND WITH THAT, IS THERE ANYONE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION PLEASE?
I THOUGHT THE THREE MINUTE
LIMIT WAS ONLY FOR THINGS THAT
WERE NOT ON THE AGENDA BUT OH
MY NAME IS LAURIE LOUNSBURY.
I LIVE AT FIVE OH SEVEN MILLER
AVENUE.
I HAVE NOTHING AGAINST
CHILDREN.
I HAVE TWO OF MY OWN AND THREE
GRANDCHILDREN BUT THIS LOCATION
WILL ADD THEY ALREADY HAVE 30
CHILDREN ON ONE SIDE OF ME AND
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY TEACHERS
THIS WILL PUT ALMOST A HUNDRED
PEOPLE ALL THE WAY AROUND ME.
IF YOU LOOKED AT THE MAP THEY
HAD THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE THE
CHILDREN PLAYING BEHIND MY
HOUSE.
THAT MEANS ONE HUNDRED PEOPLE
COMPLETELY SURROUNDING ME ALL
THE TIME AS IT IS RIGHT NOW I
CAN NO LONGER USE MY BACKYARD.
THEY LIKE TO HAVE THE KIDS
OUTSIDE ALL YEAR LONG WHICH I'M
GOOD WITH HAVING KIDS OUTSIDE
BUT I CAN'T USE MY BACKYARD.
IT'S SO OUT THERE AND THEY'RE
LITTLE KIDS.
THEY'RE LITTLE TINY KIDS
SCREAMING AND YELLING ALL THE
TIME.
THE TEACHERS ARE ALLOWED TO MY
BIGGEST PROBLEM IS THAT THIS I
BOUGHT THIS HOUSE TWENTY YEARS
AGO.
THIS IS ALL I HAVE.
THIS IS MY LIFE SAVINGS.
THIS WAS MY RETIREMENT PLAN TO
STAY THERE AND LET THE EQUITY
APPRECIATE THIS WILL
IMMEDIATELY DESTROY ALL THE
VALUE IN MY HOUSE.
NO ONE WOULD BUY A HOUSE WEDGED
IN BETWEEN A HUNDRED PEOPLE A
HUNDRED PEOPLE, SEVENTY OF WHOM
WILL BE ALLOWED CHILDREN.
SO I WILL BE RUINED DEVASTATED
.
I WILL LOSE EVERYTHING I HAVE
WITH THIS EVERYTHING I DID MY
DUE DILIGENCE WHEN I BOUGHT MY
HOUSE.
THAT HOUSE NEXT DOOR DID HAVE A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT FOR AN
ADULT DAYCARE.
I DON'T THINK THAT EVER WENT TO
FRUITION.
IF IT DID I NEVER SAW A PERSON
COMING AND GOING WHEN I BOUGHT
MY HOUSE THE DAYCARE NEXT DOOR
WAS FOR SIX OR EIGHT LITTLE
CHILDREN.
IT WASN'T A BIG DEAL.
THEN APPLE CAME IN AND IT
IMMEDIATELY BECAME 30 KIDS
OUTSIDE ALL YEAR LONG.
CHAPMAN STREET IS EXTREMELY
NARROW.
I'VE SEEN SO MANY CARS GET
SIDESWIPED ON THAT STREET.
I'VE SEEN A CITY BUS SIDESWIPED
CARS ON THAT STREET.
I'VE SEEN THE NEIGHBORHOOD WITH
MILLER MANOR THAT CORNER IS
KIND OF UNSAVORY AND I THINK WE
ALL REMEMBER A WOMAN GOT
MURDERED A HUNDRED FEET FROM
THIS PLACE THESE LITTLE
CHILDREN I'M ALL FOR PLAYING
OUTSIDE LIKE I SAID BUT IN THE
SUMMERTIME THEY PLAY OUT THERE
IN FULL VIEW OF WEST PARK OR
ANY OF THE PEOPLE WALKING
AROUND THERE AND THEY ARE
WEARING NOTHING BUT THEIR
LITTLE UNDERPANTS BOYS AND
GIRLS OUT THERE IN THE SUMMER
THAT SEEMS LIKE A FORMULA FOR
TROUBLE.
BIG TROUBLE THEY'RE OUTSIDE ALL
THE TIME.
ALL THE TIME.
THEY ARE ALWAYS MAKING NOISE.
THEIR WEBSITE SAYS IT'S AN
OUTDOOR VERSION EXPLORING
NATURAL LANDSCAPES AND I SAID
SOMETHING ABOUT THE COMMUNITY
AND BEING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I'VE NEVER SEEN THEM LEAVE
THERE.
THIS WILL RUIN ME.
THIS WILL DESTROY ME.
RUIN ME MY HOUSE WON'T BE WORTH
ANYTHING.
SORRY YOU'RE YOUR IDEAS.
I'LL BE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION ABOUT THIS
PARTICULAR TOPIC?
WELCOME.
HI I'M FRANCES TODORA
HARGREAVES I THE IMPACT
INVESTING MANAGER FOR THE ANN
ARBOR AREA COMMUNITY
FOUNDATION.
THE IMPACT INVESTING PROGRAM
HAS BEEN IN
FOUNDATION FOR
ABOUT THREE YEARS.
THE COMMITTEE HAS THREE
PRIORITIES THAT IT SET FOR
ITSELF ITS AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SMALL BUSINESS AND CHILD CARE
AND AS PART OF THAT CHILD CARE
FOCUS I HAVE ALSO PARTICIPATED
IN THE LEVINGSTON WASHTENAW
COUNTY CHILD CARE COALITION
THAT IS HASTLER SPOKE OF WE
COMMUNICATE AND KEEP UP TO DATE
WITH DECISIONS IN LANSING ON
HOW TO HANDLE THIS CRISIS AND
WE HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH THE
TEAM AT APPLE FOR THE LAST FOUR
MONTHS ON THIS PROJECT.
THE COMMITTEE IS SUPPORTIVE
OF THIS PROJECT AND SO WE'RE
HOPEFUL THAT YOU WILL BE ALSO
AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING
ON THIS IN THE FUTURE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SIR.
OR ANYONE ELSE I WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AT THIS
TIME.
IS THERE ANYONE REMOTELY THAT
IS LOOKING TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
OK, GIVE IT A FEW MORE MOMENTS
.
OK, I SEE NO OTHER I'M GOING TO
READ THE PROPOSED MOTION WHICH
IS ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AFTER HEARING ALL
INTERESTED PERSONS IN REVIEWING
ALL RELEVANT INFORMATION
INCLUDING AN ACCOMPANYING SITE
PLAN AND FINDS A PETITION
SUBSTANTIALLY MEETS THE
STANDARDS IN CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT FIVE POINT D SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE AND SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE SIX POINT TWO POINT B
CHILD CARE CENTER AND THEREFORE
APPROVES THE FIVE OH THREE
MILLION SPECIAL EXCEPTION USED
FOR CHILD CARE AT FIVE 03
MILLER AVENUE.
THIS APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS.
THE PROPOSED USE WILL BE
CONSISTENT WITH THE R TO A
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT WHICH ALLOWS SINGLETON
TO FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USES AND
CHILD CARE CENTERS BY SPECIAL
EXCEPTION, PROPOSED USE WILL
NOT ADVERSELY IMPACT TRAFFIC
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,
CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON LOCATION
MILLER AVENUE AND CHAPMAN
STREET PROVIDE ACCESS TO THE
SITE AND THE PROPOSED USE IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE EXISTING
AND OTHER SURROUNDING USES
TRAFFIC IMPACT THE SUBJECT SITE
MEETS THE USER SPECIFIC
STANDARD OF AT LEAST SEVENTY
FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
OF LIGHT AREA AND FINALLY THE
SITE PLAN DOCUMENTING THE
EXISTING AND PROPOSED
CONDITIONS OF THE SITE PLAN HAS
BEEN SUBMITTED AS A PART OF THE
APPLICATION.
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS
APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS CHILD CARE
IS PROVIDED FOR NO MORE THAN
FORTY SEVEN CHILDREN BY NO MORE
THAN FIFTEEN CAREGIVER SIX
CLASS B BICYCLE PARKING SPACES
WILL BE PROVIDED BY SEPTEMBER
30TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AT THE
FIVE ONE ONE MILLER SHARED USE
WITH FIVE 03 MILLER AND THAT
THE ANN ARBOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE TEST
SITE PLAN WHICH DEMONSTRATES
COMPLIANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION NEW STANDARDS
AS NO DEVELOPMENT WHICH WOULD
OTHERWISE REQUIRE SITE APPROVAL
HAVE BEEN PROPOSED MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DESH.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO KICK US
OFF COMMISSIONER ADAMS YEAH.
SO THE LEGAL STANDARD FOR
SOMETHING LIKE THIS RELATES A
LOT BACK TO IMPACT ON THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
ITS COMPATIBILITY WITH THE
SO THIS IS MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I THINK THE EXPANSION OF THIS
SO THIS IS MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
PROJECT ISN'T JUST COMPATIBLE
I THINK THE EXPANSION OF THIS
WITH IT.
PROJECT ISN'T JUST COMPATIBLE
I THINK IT'S IT'S GOING TO BE
WITH IT.
THE CENTER AS EXPANDED IS GOING
I THINK IT'S IT'S GOING TO BE
TO MEET A DIRE NEED FOR
THE CENTER AS EXPANDED IS GOING
NEIGHBORHOOD CHILD CARE IN THIS
TO MEET A DIRE NEED FOR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
NEIGHBORHOOD CHILD CARE IN THIS
BEYOND THAT, I THINK THAT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
ADVERSE IMPACT ON NEIGHBORS
BEYOND THAT, I THINK THAT THE
HERE HAS TO BE VIEWED IN THE
ADVERSE IMPACT ON NEIGHBORS
CONTEXT OF TWO STREETS THAT
HERE HAS TO BE VIEWED IN THE
SUPPORT A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
CONTEXT OF TWO STREETS THAT
OF DAILY TRAFFIC A VERY VIBRANT
SUPPORT A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
PARK THAT'S RIGHT BEHIND THE
OF DAILY TRAFFIC A VERY VIBRANT
PROPERTY, A CORNER GROCERY
PARK THAT'S RIGHT BEHIND THE
STORE, A BAKERY, A DISPENSARY,
PROPERTY, A CORNER GROCERY
A CHURCH.
STORE, A BAKERY, A DISPENSARY,
I MEAN THIS IS A VERY ACTIVE
A CHURCH.
STAFF POINTED OUT A VERY ACTIVE
I MEAN THIS IS A VERY ACTIVE
AND BUSY NEIGHBORHOOD IN THAT
STAFF POINTED OUT A VERY ACTIVE
CONTEXT I THINK THE NOISE THE
AND BUSY NEIGHBORHOOD IN THAT
INCREMENTAL NOISE INCREASE THAT
CONTEXT I THINK THE NOISE THE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT REALLY
INCREMENTAL NOISE INCREASE THAT
FALLS INTO THE SAME CATEGORY AS
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT REALLY
THE STUFF THAT'S ALREADY THERE.
FALLS INTO THE SAME CATEGORY AS
SO WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
THE STUFF THAT'S ALREADY THERE.
CONSISTENCY AND IMPACT, I
SO WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
REALLY FEEL LIKE THIS USE IS
CONSISTENCY AND IMPACT, I
VERY CONSISTENT WITH WHAT'S
REALLY FEEL LIKE THIS USE IS
ALREADY PRESENT THERE AND I
VERY CONSISTENT WITH WHAT'S
FULLY SUPPORT THIS AND I'M
ALREADY PRESENT THERE AND I
EXCITED TO VOTE YES ON IT.
FULLY SUPPORT THIS AND I'M
THANK YOU.
EXCITED TO VOTE YES ON IT.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU TO
STAFF BECAUSE THE STAFF REPORT
DOES A GREAT JOB WITH ITS TABLE
CHECKING OFF THE UDC
REQUIREMENTS ARE MET BY THIS
PROJECT AND I'D LIKE TO
ELABORATE ON THE FIRST OF THESE
WHICH IS CONSISTENCY WITH
OBJECTIVES OF A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
AND AS STAFF NOTES, THE
PROPOSED CHILDCARE CENTER
PROVIDES AN ESSENTIAL SERVICE
FOR THOSE LIVING AND WORKING IN
THE CITY.
UM, IT IT IT IS NOT AN
EXAGGERATION.
IT IS ACTUALLY EMPIRICAL FACT
THAT WASHTENAW COUNTY IS
CONSIDERED A CHILD CARE DESERT.
THERE IS ONLY ONE LICENSED SPOT
AVAILABLE FOR KIDS ONE TO FIVE
AND THIS IS WHAT SHOULD REALLY
GIVE US ALL PAUSE THAT CLOSE TO
20 PERCENT OF THE LICENSED
SPOTS ARE SITTING EMPTY BECAUSE
PEOPLE CANNOT HIRE STAFF
BECAUSE CHILDCARE WAGES ARE SO
LOW APPLE PLAY PAYS ITS STAFF
OVER THE MEDIAN WAGE
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY.
THEY PAY CLOSE TO SIXTEEN
DOLLARS AN HOUR.
THEY ALSO PROVIDE 50 PERCENT
INFANT AND TODDLER AND FIFTY
PERCENT PRESCHOOL HERE.
THEIR EXPANSION THAT THEY ARE
BRINGING BEFORE US IS NECESSARY
FOR THEM TO BE ABLE TO CONTINUE
PAYING AT AT WHAT IS ALMOST A
LIVING WAGE AND YET WE ARE
HAPPY ABOUT IT AND THAT THEY
ARE ABLE TO CONTINUE TO PROVIDE
THAT KIND OF RATIO.
MANY PLACES JUST CANNOT AFFORD
TO PROVIDE INFANT TODDLER CARE
BECAUSE IT IS SO EXPENSIVE TO
DO SO.
AND SO WITHOUT THIS EXPANSION
THEY ARE NOT ABLE TO CONTINUE
THIS IMPORTANT SERVICE
OF OFFERING INFANT AND TODDLER
CARE.
UM, THIS IS NOT MERELY I MEAN
THESE ISSUES OF CHILD CARE ARE
ALSO ISSUES OF EQUITY BECAUSE
THEY HIT WOMEN AND WOMEN
OF COLOR HARDEST.
SO IN TERMS OF THE CRUCIAL
SERVICES THAT THIS CHILD CARE
CENTER WILL PROVIDE, I THINK
THAT THE PROJECT CHECKS THOSE
BOXES.
I HAVE, UH, IMMENSE SYMPATHY
FOR THE FRUSTRATION THAT MISS
LOUNSBURY EXPRESSED.
I CANNOT IMAGINE THAT APPLE
PLAYSKOOL WOULDN'T BE WILLING
TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT NOISE
MITIGATION.
WE ALREADY HAVE IN THE STAFF
REPORT EVIDENCE THAT THEY HAVE
RESPONDED TO CONCERNS ABOUT A
PIANO ON THE FRONT PORCH BY
MOVING THAT.
SO I BET THERE ARE WAYS TO TALK
ABOUT THAT.
UM, I ALSO CAN'T IMAGINE ANY
HOUSE IN ANN ARBOR HAVING NO
VALUE SO I UNDERSTAND THAT
THERE MAY BE A LOSS BUT UM
THERE MAY ALSO BE THERE ARE
MANY GAINS.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER MILLS.
I THINK YOUR NEXT UNLESS SOME
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE UH
THIS IS NOT MY NEIGHBORHOOD BUT
MY NIECE AND NEPHEW WENT TO WI
WISDOM WHICH WAS IN 511 MILLER
BACK IN THE DAY ONE'S NOW IN
COLLEGE.
ONE'S A SENIOR IN HIGH SCHOOL
AND THIS WAS A FABULOUS SPOT.
IT WAS JUST SO AMAZING THEIR
PARENTS COULD WALK THEM TO AND
FROM SCHOOL IF SOMETHING
HAPPENED WE COULD RUSH IN
BECAUSE WE WORKED DOWNTOWN AT
THE UNIVERSITY.
IT WAS JUST A REALLY GREAT SPOT
AND IT'S IT'S VERY EXCITING TO
SEE MORE OPPORTUNITIES THERE
FOR CHILD CARE BECAUSE IS A
HUGE PROBLEM.
AND WHAT WE YOU KNOW, THE THING
THAT IS MOST DANGEROUS FOR OUR
KIDS IS DRIVING THEM EVERYWHERE
AND TO BE ABLE TO BE IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE NOT
EVERYBODY WOULD HAVE TO DRIVE
THEIR KIDS AND DROP THEM OFF
AND LEAVE THEM, YOU KNOW, HAVE
BIG LINES OF CARS.
I LOVE THE BIKE PARKING.
I THINK THAT'S A REALLY
IMPORTANT PIECE.
I AM SYMPATHETIC TO WILD
CHILDREN.
I LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE
THE CHILDREN ARE OLDER BUT THEY
ARE STILL LOUD AND THEY ARE
LOUD LATER AT NIGHT.
BUT IT'S OUR COMMUNITY AND
THAT'S OUR SOCIETY AND WE HAVE
THAT AND AND OUR OUR HOUSES ARE
HAVE GONE UP IN VALUE NO MATTER
WHAT.
SOMETIMES YOU MIGHT THINK HOW
COULD HOW COULD A HOUSE NEXT
TO, YOU KNOW, TERRIBLE STUDENT
HOUSE GO UP IN VALUE AND YET
THEY'VE DOUBLED IN VALUE AND SO
I AM SYMPATHETIC.
I KNOW THAT'S NOT GOING TO HELP
THAT WE'RE SYMPATHETIC BUT I
THINK THAT THIS IS A GREAT
LOCATION FOR A CHILD CARE AND
AN EXPANSION THAT IS YOU KNOW,
IT'S ON A PARK.
IT'S IT'S JUST IN A REALLY
GREAT SPACE AND IT'S BEEN USED
AS A CHILD CARE CENTER FOR YOU
KNOW, THE AREA HAS BEEN CHILD
CARE CENTERS FOR A LONG TIME.
SO I THINK I THINK IT'S GREAT.
I DID HAVE ONE QUESTION FOR
STAFF.
DO WE NEED TO ADD THE FIRE
HYDRANT TO EMOTION OR IS THAT
JUST PART?
WE DO NOT THE FIRE HYDRANT IS
REQUIRED BY BUILDING CODE AND
SO THE FIRE MARSHAL'S TAKING
CARE OF THAT.
OK, YEAH.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER LS THIS IS MY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I LOOKED AT APPLE PLAYSKOOL AND
I ACTUALLY HAVE A QUESTION
ABOUT HOW THE TWO CENTERS WILL
OPERATE A NOT MY CHILDREN ARE
BLESSEDLY NOW IN ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL SO I'M NOT PAYING FOR
DAYCARE BUT I REMEMBER THAT I
NEED TO TAKE THEM TO TWO
DIFFERENT CENTERS BECAUSE
OF THE AGE GAP SO IS THE
INTENTION AGE WISE HOW WOULD
HOW WILL THIS OPERATE?
I SO WISH THE INTENTION WAS TO
CONSOLIDATE INFANT, TODDLER AND
PRESCHOOL CARE ON ONE SITE SO
PEOPLE DIDN'T
HAVE TO DRIVE UP
AND DOWN THE ROAD.
BUT SADLY THAT IS NOT THE
INTENTION.
NO, THE INTENTION IS THAT THE
NEW CENTER FIVE OH THREE
MILLION WILL BE ONLY FOR
CHILDREN 30 MONTHS AND OLDER.
THAT'S FOR TWO REASONS.
ONE IS BECAUSE OF THE STATE
CHILD CARE LICENSING RULES AND
FIRE SAFETY AND EGRESS.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO HAVE
INFANT TODDLER CARE IN MOST
OF THE SPACES AT FIVE OR THREE
MILLER BECAUSE OF WHAT'S
REQUIRED TO MAKE SURE THAT KIDS
WHO CAN'T WALK CAN BE MOVED
SAFELY BY THEIR CAREGIVERS IN
THE CASE OF A FIRE.
SO TO SORT OF ALLEVIATE ANY
ISSUES AROUND STATE LICENSING
WE DECIDED TO STICK TO 30 AND
OLDER THERE.
THE SECOND REASON IS BECAUSE AS
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH MENTIONED,
WE CURRENTLY PROVIDE INFANT
TODDLER CARE AT THE BUILDING UP
THE STREET AS WELL AS THAT
MANZONI THAT CONSTITUTES FIFTY
PERCENT OF OUR ENROLLMENT AND
THE MARGINS ON INFANT TODDLER
CARE ARE NEGATIVE.
THEY WE RUN THOSE SPOTS AT A
LOSS IN ORDER TO ACCOMMODATE
THE COMMUNITY'S NEED AND THE
OLDER THE THE TUITION WE CAN
CHARGE FOR THE OLDER SPOTS WILL
ALLOW US TO OFFSET THAT COST.
BUT OUR OVERHEAD AMONG MORE
FAMILIES IN ORDER TO BETTER
COMPENSATE OUR STAFF RIGHT NOW
I CAN SPEAK FROM EXPERIENCE THE
NEED FOR CHILD CARE IS GREAT.
IT WOULD HAVE SAVED ME FROM I
MEAN ONE OF THE REASONS IS WE
TRY TO NOT DRIVE AND HANDLE
BOTH DROP OFFS ON LIKE THAT'S
THE HILL TO GO UP ON ANYWAY.
BUT EVEN SO, I MEAN I I THINK
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S GREAT
ABOUT THIS SITE IS THE
COMPLIMENTARY COMPLEMENTARITY
OF THE PARKING WITH THE CHURCH
USE IN TERMS OF USING THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THE TIME THAT IT
WOULD BE USED IS ARE ALWAYS OFF
PEAK RIGHT.
AND SO EVEN IF THERE IS A
CHURCH EVENT KIND OF IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE DAY THAT'S NOT
DURING DROP OFF TIME.
SO I'M LITERALLY JUST ACROSS
THE PARK IN THE BACKYARD AND SO
LIKE I CAN SEE WHAT'S GOING ON
LIKE HOW OFTEN THAT THAT
PARKING LOT IS FULL AND I MEAN
IT'S IT'S IT'S SUPER
COMPLIMENTARY IN TERMS OF THOSE
USES AND IN TERMS OF A
NEIGHBOR, RIGHT?
IT IS IT'S IT'S SILENT AT NIGHT
KIDS GO HOME AND ON THE
WEEKENDS AND ALSO THAT'S
COMPLIMENTARY WITH US WITH THE
CHURCH YOU SO I THINK THIS IS A
GREAT USE OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE
WE HAVE.
THIS IS LIKE THE HUB OF KIND
OF LOWER WATER HILL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE'S THERE'S A HUB
OF ACTIVITY HERE AND SO AND BUS
STOPS JUST ACROSS THE BAR JUST
ACROSS THE INTERSECTION AT
SHAPIN.
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS IS
APPROPRIATE AS A STAFF REPORT
POINTS OUT, I THINK IT MEETS
ALL THE CRITERIA.
THE QUESTION THAT I HAVE AND
THIS I THINK IS FOR STAFF IS IN
THE UDC THERE'S A THOUSAND FOOT
SPACING FROM A DISPENSARY TO A
PRIVATE SCHOOL AND I'M CURIOUS
IF THIS COUNTS OR NOT.
THIS DOES NOT COUNT BECAUSE THE
DISPENSARY IS ALREADY THERE.
OK, SO A CHILD CARE CAN OPEN
WITHIN THAT THOUSAND FEET BUT A
NEW DISPENSARY SAY ON THE OTHER
SIDE WOULD HAVE TO THEN BE A
THOUSAND FEET AWAY FROM THE NEW
YOU KNOW.
RIGHT.
IT IS THIS GOING TO PUT THE IS
THIS GOING TO PUT THE
DISPENSARY I'M SORRY I HAVE TO
SAY OK, CHILDCARE'S ARE NOT
COUNTED THE SAME WAY SCHOOLS
ARE.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE A THOUSAND
FEET FROM CHILDCARE.
OK, I COULDN'T I COULDN'T
REMEMBER OF DAYCARE COUNTED AS
YET.
OK IT'S ELEMENTARY AND UP AND I
WOULD JUST SAY AGAIN LIKE IT'S
THERE IN THE PARK ALL THE TIME
LIKE THIS IS HAPPENING IN PLACE
TO BE AND ACTUALLY THE MORE
ACTIVITY THAT WE LIKE I LIKE
THE ACTIVITY THAT'S ON THE
STREET SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE WEREN'T PUTTING
ANOTHER SPECIAL EXCEPTION IN A
WEIRD SPOT IN CASE THERE WAS A
CONFLICT LIKE THERE'S NOT SO
GREAT I THIS I'M EXCITED TO SEE
THIS.
THANK YOU, MR. CLARK.
YEAH.
I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS THAT I'M
LOOKING FORWARD TO SUPPORTING
THIS AND THANK YOU FOR BRINGING
MORE CHILD CARE TO ANN ARBOR
AND FROM EXPERIENCE THAT WE
VERY BADLY NEED AND IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT FOR CHILD CARE IS TO
GET TO SCALE TO PROPERLY
EXPAND.
SO THANK YOU FOR DOING THAT
ALSO I JUST THINK IT'S A GREAT
LOCATION.
IT'S RIGHT BY PUBLIC PARK AND
CHILDREN I STRONGLY BELIEVE
CHILDREN HAVE A RIGHT TO EXIST
IN THE CITY.
USE OUR PUBLIC MONEYS AND I
THINK IT'S WONDERFUL THAT YOU
HAVE THE CHILDREN OUTSIDE.
THAT'S AN ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC
COMMUNITY AND I THINK IT'S
REALLY A MATTER OF PERSPECTIVE
WHETHER IT'S A BENEFIT OR NOT.
YOU KNOW, ON A PERSONAL LEVEL
FOR THE HOMEOWNERS.
BUT I WOULD SAY THAT AGAIN
WE'RE FORTUNATE ENOUGH TO LIVE
IN A CITY WHERE PROPERTY VALUES
ARE PRETTY STABLE AND THERE
WILL BE A MARKET FOR THAT SO
WELL I GUESS I CAN BE
SYMPATHETIC TO NEIGHBOR
CONCERNS ON THEIR CHILDREN HAVE
A RIGHT TO EXIST IN THE CITY.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER WHICH IS A
QUESTION FOR STAFF ABOUT I WAS
LOOKING UP THE PROPERTY
OWNERSHIP IT LOOKS LIKE THE
CHURCH OWNS YES.
FIVE THREE FIVE ELEVEN AND FIVE
FIFTEEN THAT'S OK.
SO THEN THE PROPERTY THAT
THEY'RE SHARING ACROSS FIVE
THREE AND FIVE ELEVEN ACTUALLY
RUN FROM FIVE FIFTEEN ACROSS
AND BACK ACCORDING TO YOUR
STAFF REPORT LINES.
I LOOK AT THE MAP SORRY THE
NUMBERS STRAIGHT AND I GUESS I
I JUST HAVE A GENERAL QUESTION
ABOUT THE NEED FOR THAT BECAUSE
THE CHURCH IS NOT OPERATING AND
THEY'RE LEASING THE SPACE.
THAT'S WHY IT'S COMING IN
BECAUSE THE CHURCH WOULD HAVE
FLEXIBLE READY TO DO WHAT THEY
WANT IT TO BE IN THAT SPACE
WITHIN CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS.
THE CHURCH WOULD ALSO NEED A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USED TO
OPERATE A CHURCH BASED CHILD
CARE.
OK, YEAH OK.
THOSE ARE MY QUESTIONS.
OK, THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT I'LL JUST
ADD MY TWO CENTS.
WAS THAT A SPARK ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT MEETING A FEW DAYS
AGO WHICH WE DID TALK ABOUT THE
LACK OF CHILD CARE AND THE THE
IMPACT IT HAS ON TALENT
ATTRACTION AS WELL AS
RETENTION.
I CERTAINLY HEAR AS FAR AS
FRUSTRATIONS WITH RESPECT TO
NOISE BORDERING ON WHAT COULD
BE CONSIDERED NUISANCE LOOKING
AT THE OVERALL CONTEXT OF THE
CONCEPT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AS WELL AS AS THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS ELOQUENTLY PUT
THE CHILDREN DO HAVE A RIGHT TO
PLACE IN OUR CITY AS WELL.
I'M IN SUPPORT OF THIS OVERALL
IN THE CONSIDERATION THAT BEING
SAID, I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT
YOUR PARTICULAR PROPERTY IS
ALSO PROSPECTIVELY ALSO
POSSIBLE FOR A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION YOUTH AS FAR AS
CONVERSION GOES BUT THAT THAT'S
NEITHER HERE NOR THERE.
ALL OF THAT SAID I'M IN SUPPORT
AND I THINK ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WITH FINAL
THOUGHTS BUT THAT WILL GO TO A
ROLL CALL VOTE.
THANKS, STEPH.
COMMISSIONER ATOM'S SUPPORT
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE YES
SAWMILL'S YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DUSH YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S YES AND
COMMISSIONER WE YES THAT PASSES
MOTION CARRIES.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO REGULAR BUSINESS
THIS IS FOUR ONE SIX LONGSWORD
DRIVE SITE PLAN FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
I WILL GIVE A QUICK THIS IS A
PROPOSAL TO CONSTRUCT A NEW
FOUR STOREY FIFTEEN UNIT CONDO
BUILDING NEXT TO AN EXISTING
OFFICE BUILDING.
THE SITE SIZE IS ONE POINT SIX
SIX ACRES.
ZONING DESIGNATION IS OFFICE
DUE TO A NOTICING ERROR.
THIS PETITION IS REQUESTED TO
BE MOVED TO THE APRIL 2ND
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MEETING
AGENDA WE WILL STILL HOLD A
PUBLIC HEARING SINCE IT WAS
POSTED BUT WILL BE RENAMED
SINGING HOLDING A NEW HEARING
ON APRIL 2ND.
I NEED A MOTION TO POSTPONE AND
VOICE VOTE AFTER THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND SO WELL WE'LL DO
THAT RIGHT AFTER YES.
AFTER THE PUBLIC HEARING.
SO WE'RE GOING TO GO ON IF
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO A PUBLIC
HEARING WITH RESPECT TO FOUR
ONE SIX LONGSWORD DRIVE, THIS
IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS
TO SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT THIS ITEM.
WE'LL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT AND THEN THOSE REMOTELY
TO SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RIGHT HAND FEATURE
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AN
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT SAYING
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA.
MUTE BACKGROUND NOISES SO THAT
WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON FOUR ONE
SIX LONGSHORE DRIVE PLEASE
BEFORE I START CLASS WHY WAS
POSTPONED AGAIN IT IS NOTICING
ERROR IS PERSPECTIVELY STAFF DO
YOU WANT NOT NOTICING ERROR.
YEAH WE TAKE SEVERAL STEPS TO
NOTICE A PUBLIC HEARING AND A
VARIETY OF WAYS AND ONE OF THE
STEPS WASN'T COMPLETED
APPARENTLY FOR THIS ONE SO MAKE
SURE THAT EVERYBODY RECEIVES
THAT NOTICE.
THAT'S OUR RESCHEDULING IT FOR
THE APRIL MEETING.
OK, MAKES SENSE.
YEAH NO SWEAT.
MY TRAUTMANN I LIVE ON FIVE
THIRTY DETROIT STREET IN NORTH
CENTRAL AND I WANT TO BRING UP
TWO POINTS THAT I HAD ABOUT
THIS DEVELOPMENT THE FIRST
OF WHICH IS THAT I TOOK A
GLANCE AT THE MITIGATION PLANS
OR THE SITE PLANS AND I THINK
THAT THE OVERALL PLAN FOR
MITIGATION FOR THIS IS MORE OR
LESS DESIGN WISE AND OTHERWISE
UNACCEPTABLE.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE ARE
LANDMARK TREATY REQUIREMENTS
AND THAT THIS IS TAKING OUT A
SWATH OF A NICE CHUNK OF WOODS
IN THE AREA.
BUT TO KIND OF DISILLUSION
YOURSELF INTO THINKING YOU CAN
PLACE WHAT I THINK THEY SAID IS
NINETY FIVE TREES IN THIS NOW
EXTREMELY CRAMPED LOT IS JUST
NOT DOABLE BY ANY STRETCH
OF THE IMAGINATION.
IF YOU TAKE A GLANCE AT IT
THERE'S ESSENTIALLY JUST THESE
CIRCLES OVERLAPPING ONE
ANOTHER.
IT'LL LOOK NOTHING SHORT OF AN
ORCHARD AND IT'S JUST A LITTLE
BIT SILLY.
SO I WOULD IMPLORE THERE TO BE
A DIFFERENT WAY TO THINK ABOUT
HOW DO WE MITIGATE FOR ALL
OF THE LAMARK TREES AND THE
WOODLAND TREES THAT ARE BEING
REMOVED IN THIS DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT?
ONE THING THAT I KNOW IS THAT
ODDLY ENOUGH THE LITTLE CHUNK
OF WOODS TO THE WEST OF THIS IS
ACTUALLY A VERY HIGH QUALITY
BIRDING HOTSPOT IN ANN ARBOR,
ESPECIALLY WITHIN THE DOWNTOWN
REALM.
AND I THINK THIS IS DUE TO IT
BEING YOU KNOW, ITS PROXIMITY
TO A THE DOWNTOWN BUT IT'S ALSO
A FLYWAY IT HAS PROXIMITY TO
QUALITY RIVERFRONT AND THERE'S
JUST A HOST OF BIRDS THAT
MIGRATE AND RESIDE IN THIS
LITTLE SWATH OF WOODS HERE.
SO PERHAPS THERE'S A WAY TO
MAKE THE MITIGATION INSTEAD
OF JUST PLOPPING NINETY FIVE
USELESS USELESS TREES IN AN
ORCHARD STYLE ON THIS CRAMPED
OFFICE NOW RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY
MAYBE THERE'S A WAY TO HAVE
SOME SORT OF HABITAT AND
ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION IN THE
CHUNK OF WOODLAND THERE.
PERHAPS THERE'S A WAY TO MAYBE
NOT JUST RESTORE BUT ALSO
BETTER THAT AREA AND THE
HABITAT.
I THINK THIS IS DIFFICULT AND
WOULD REQUIRE SOME THINKING ON
THE END OF THE DEVELOPER YOU
GUYS.
BUT THERE NEEDS TO BE A METRIC
YOU CAN'T JUST SAY YOU'RE
RESTORING SOMETHING AND HAVE
THAT BE IT.
THERE NEEDS TO BE A WAY TO
ACTUALLY DOCUMENT AND
ECOLOGICALLY MONITOR WHAT'S
HAPPENING THERE AND SHOW AN
INCREASE IN SPECIES AND HABITAT
SO THAT WOULD BE MY FIRST POINT
WOULD BE TO REINVESTIGATE WHAT
MITIGATION MEANS FOR THIS
BECAUSE IF YOU TAKE ANY CLOSER
LOOK AT THE SITE PLAN THAT I
WOULD CONSIDER IT UNACCEPTABLE
AND IT SHOWS THAT THERE WAS NO
DESIGN THOUGHT PUT INTO THIS AT
ALL AND IT WAS JUST REQUIRED IN
NINETY FIVE TREES PLOP, PLOP,
PLOP, PLOP, PLOP WHICH IS JUST
NOT IN MY OPINION THE SECOND
POINT I'D LIKE TO BRING UP
WHICH IS LESS OF A ASK
OF ANYTHING OF YOU WOULD JUST
TO SEE AN ARGUMENT THAT I'M
SURE YOU'VE HEARD A MILLION
TIMES WHICH IS WHY IS THERE
ANOTHER LUXURY CONDOMINIUM
EXTREME WEALTH ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT GOING ON IN ANN
ARBOR?
I MYSELF AM A YOUNG
PROFESSIONAL, A RECENT COLLEGE
GRADUATE AND I JUST LOOK AT THE
PLANS FOR THIS AND KNOW THAT I
WOULD HAVE ZERO CHANCE AT
AFFORDING SOMETHING LIKE THIS
AND I CONSIDER MYSELF WELL-OFF
AND QUITE PRIVILEGED A LOT
OF WAYS AND I KNOW NO ONE LIKE
MYSELF OR WITHIN LIKE A SIMILAR
SITUATION TO MY OWN COULD
REALLY THINK ABOUT AFFORDING TO
LIVE TO A PLACE LIKE THIS.
AND I'M SURE THIS IS SOMETHING
YOU'VE HEARD A MILLION TIMES
AND THE DEVELOPER IS ALLOWED TO
HAVE LUXURY CONDOMINIUMS HERE.
I WOULD ASK WHY IS IT SO EASY
TO CONTINUE HAVING PROJECTS
LIKE THIS AND WHY IS THERE
NOTHING TO MAYBE INCENTIVIZE
THE DEVELOPER HAVING THESE YOU
KNOW IT'S FIFTEEN LUXURY CONDOS
,FORTY SOMETHING THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT BUILDING SO TO ME
IT SEEMS LIKE THERE'S MAYBE
SOMETHING MISSING THERE.
I WALK THROUGH THIS AREA EVERY
DAY TO WORK AND IT'S A UNIQUE
PART OF ANN ARBOR.
IT'S AN UNIQUE NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S PROXIMITY TO THE MEDICAL
CENTER.
IT HAS PROXIMITY TO BIKE TRAILS
AND A LOT OF AWESOME OUTDOOR
RECREATION AND I JUST THINK
THAT PEOPLE THAT WOULD WANT TO
LIVE HERE ARE NOT GOING TO BE
THE PEOPLE THAT ARE GOING TO
LIVE IN THIS PLACE.
IT'S GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT
ARE VERY WEALTHY AND ARE
DRIVING THEIR CAR INTO THE BIG
PARKING RAMP AND ARE LEAVING
EVERY DAY AND ARE NOT USING THE
SPACE THE WAY IT COULD BE USED
TO.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, APPRECIATE YOUR COMMENTS
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON
LONG SHORE DRIVE?
YES, HI MY NAME IS JUDY
NICHOLAI.
I LIVE AT FIVE SEVENTEEN LONG
SHORT DRIVE WE ARE A
CONDOMINIUM COMMUNITY RIGHT
ACROSS THE STREET.
I REALLY HAVE MORE I GUESS A
COMMENT AND A QUESTION HAVING
LIVED THERE FOR TEN YEARS I'M
QUITE AWARE OF WHAT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS LIKE ON
WEEKENDS AND SOMETIMES DURING
THE WEEK BETWEEN MEMORIAL DAY
AND LABOR DAY WHEN THE CASCADES
ARE A HUGE ATTRACTION IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I PERSONALLY DON'T DRIVE BUT I
KNOW THAT MY NEIGHBORS HAVE
PLENTY OF TROUBLE ALREADY WITH
ACCESS TO THEIR OWN PARKING LOT
BECAUSE OF ALL THE ACTIVITY YOU
HAVE PEOPLE WALKING DOWN THE
STREET AND BATHING SUITS
CARRYING TUBES AND KAYAKS.
IT'S KIND OF A FUN NEIGHBORHOOD
IN THAT REGARD BUT IT'S REALLY
DIFFICULT FOR ME TO IMAGINE
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD WITH 15
MULTIMILLION DOLLAR
CONDOMINIUMS.
IT DOESN'T SUIT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD ENERGY AT ALL.
I IT'S HARD TO SQUARE THAT
CIRCLE FOR ME.
UM, I ALSO WONDER A LOT OF THE
AREA THAT'S GOING TO BE
DEVELOPED HERE IS USED FOR
PARKING FOR THE CASCADES AND I
WONDER WHAT THE PLANS ARE TO
REPLACE THAT PARKING ASSUMING
THAT PEOPLE WILL STILL WANT TO
BE COMING TO THE CASCADES TO
CANOE AND KAYAK AND DO THEIR
TUBING DOWN THE RIVER.
SO THOSE ARE MY QUESTIONS AND
CONCERNS.
I WILL CONFESS THAT I HAVE NOT
HAD TIME TO DO MUCH RESEARCH ON
THIS PROJECT BUT FROM THE POINT
OF VIEW OF SOMEONE WHO LIVES IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD, THOSE ARE
THE KINDS OF THINGS THAT MY
NEIGHBORS ARE TALKING ABOUT IN
ADDITION TO THE FACT THAT WE'RE
ALL RATHER PUZZLED THAT PEOPLE
WHO CAN AFFORD THAT KIND OF A
PROPERTY WANT TO LIVE RIGHT
NEXT DOOR TO A FREIGHT TRAIN
TRACK WHERE TRAINS COME BY AT
ALL TIMES OF THE DAY OR NIGHT.
SO I HAVE MORE COMMENTS THAN
THAN ANYTHING ELSE.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON
LONG SHORE DRIVE?
IS THERE ANYONE REMOTELY THAT
WOULD WISH TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
THERE IS ONE HAND RAISED ONE
MOMENT PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN
FIVE THREE FOR YOU PERMISSION
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
AGAIN
THIS MAY NEVER WALK AWAY FROM
HERE.
I WANT TO ADDRESS THE SPEAKER
JUST SAID ABOUT THE IT'S NOT AN
OBLIGATION OF THE DEVELOPER
HERE GLANDORE.
WELL, THEY ARE LIVERIED THAT IT
WOULD BE VERY NICE IF THE CITY
WOULD RECOGNIZE THAT THIS PARK
WHICH HAS BEEN VERY HELPFUL
PERHAPS BECAUSE THE POPULARITY
OF GAME AND DELIVERY I CAN COME
UP WITH A PLAN THAT I THINK
THIS IS THE CURRENT PLAN TO
HELP ALLEVIATE THE CONCERN
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD SURROUNDING
THIS PARK.
AGAIN, IT'S NOT ANY APPLICATION
DEVELOPERS TO DO BY THE CITY
WHO LIBERATORS WOULD THINK
ABOUT A PLAN FOR THAT.
BUT THAT THE DEVELOPER AGAIN
THIS IS JUST AN DEVELOPERS
GOING FOR A MANDATORY
STORMWATER.
I'M SURE THERE ARE A LOT OF OUR
CITY COUNTY RIGHT NOW.
THE IMPACT OF GLOBAL CLIMATE
CHANGE ARE YOU HAVE A VERY
LARGE IMPACT THE SEVERITY AND
THE FREQUENCY HERE SOMETHING
LIKE NOT UNIQUE TO THIS ONE BUT
ESSENTIALLY WHAT WE'RE
DESIGNING FOR RIGHT NOW AND
WHAT WE CAN DO RIGHT NOW IS
GOING TO BE PRETTY ACTUALLY
PRETTY QUICKLY.
THIS PARTICULAR SITE IS THE
TOPOGRAPHY SITUATION PUTS IT
UP.
TELL US WHAT THAT INTO OUR
LIBRARY.
THIS IS JUST A SIMPLE FOR THE
DEVELOPER IF YOU'RE ABLE TO
OVERSIZE YOUR STORMWATER
TENSION SO THAT YOU CAN ADD 10
20 PERCENT, THAT WOULD BE
REALLY WONDERFUL AND I'M HOPING
THAT THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN LOOK AT ALL OF OUR I KNOW
RIGHT NOW THERE'S NO STORMWATER
MITIGATION FROM THIS OR
WHATEVER HAPPENED.
BUT LOOKING FORWARD TO WHAT IS
GOING TO BE THERE FOR REGIONALS
IN PARTICULAR.
SO THIS IS NEXT TO THIS YEAR
WHICH COULD BE CRAZY IMPACT IF
NOT MORE OFTEN IN FIVE YEARS IS
CURRENTLY ONE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, PROFESSOR
.
THANK YOU.
MR. STALBERG, DO WE HAVE ANY
OTHER CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO MORE HANDS RAISED
FOR THIS TIME.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
I AM LOOKING FOR A MOTION TO
POSTPONE THIS HEARING TO APRIL
2ND MOVE BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
AND SECONDED BY A COUNCIL
MEMBER.
THIS IS JUST REQUIRES A VOICE
VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY
AY AY ALL THOSE OPPOSED MOTION
PASSES.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS POSTPONED FOR THE APRIL
2ND HEARING.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO SECTION ITEM
NUMBER NINE SEE THE SEVEN THREE
TWO PACARD STREET PARTIES
ZONING DISTRICT AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AND
STATE PLAN FOR CITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL.
THIS IS A REQUEST TO REZONE ONE
POINT TWO SEVEN ACRE
SITE FROM
C ONE ACRE CAMPUS BUSINESS
RESIDENTIAL TO A PUDI PLAN UNIT
DEVELOPMENT AND ADOPT
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS TO
ALLOW DEVELOPMENT THE FORM TO
FIFTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET AND
FOURTEEN STORIES AND THE SITE
PLANNED TO CONSTRUCT A FOURTEEN
STORY APARTMENT BUILDING WITH
OPTIONAL GROUND FLOOR
COMMERCIAL PROPOSED BENEFICIAL
EFFECTS OF THE PUDI DISTRICT
INCLUDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING BUT
PAYMENT AND TO ENHANCE
SUSTAINABILITY AND OPEN SPACE
AS PROPOSED.
THE BUILDING HAS THREE HUNDRED
SEVENTY SIX APARTMENTS TO
VEHICULAR PARKING SPACES THREE
HUNDRED NINETY TWO BICYCLE
PARKING SPACES AND INCLUDES
STREETSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS.
THE SITE INCLUDES TWELVE
PARCELS SEVEN TO TO SEVEN TO
SIX SEVEN THREE TWO SEVEN THREE
SIX AND SEVEN FORTY PACKARD
STREET AND NINE ONE SEVEN NINE
TWENTY ONE NINE TWENTY THREE
NINE TWENTY FIVE NINE TWENTY
SEVEN NINE THIRTY ONE AND NINE
THIRTY THREE S STATE STREET THE
ZONING DESIGNATION THAT'S
RECOMMENDED AS PAUDIE WILL MOVE
ON TO PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
WELCOME THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
MY NAME IS ANDY SAVOY COMING TO
YOU FROM CHICAGO.
SIXTEEN FORTY SEVEN NORTH
MILWAUKEE CHICAGO ILLINOIS.
I'M HERE TO ASK FOR YOUR
SUPPORT FOR A PROPOSED MIXED
USE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT THAT
WILL HELP TO ALLEVIATE THE
HOUSING CRISIS HERE IN ANN
ARBOR AND HAVE HAD SOME SERIOUS
PUBLIC BENEFITS AND
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS TO BOOT
.
I'M WITH A COMPANY CALLED
SPACES.
WE ARE A NATIONAL UNIVERSITY
ANCHORED HOUSING DEVELOPER
BASED IN CHICAGO.
WE'VE DEVELOPED CLOSE TO THIRTY
THOUSAND BEDS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY AND THIS WILL BE OUR
THIRD PROJECT IN ANN ARBOR.
WE ARE WE DO HAVE A PARTNER FOR
THIS DEAL JARED CHANK OF CHANK
REALTY WHO'S SITTING RIGHT
BEHIND ME AS WELL AS MY ENTIRE
TEAM.
THE ARCHITECT AND ENGINEERING
TEAM IS BACK THERE TO HELP ME
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS.
YOU MIGHT HAVE JUST SOME PHOTOS
OF OUR PROJECTS AROUND THE
MIDWEST.
THIS WILL BE OUR THIRD IN TOWN.
WE HAVE ONE BUILT ONE THAT'S
KIND OF IN THE PERMITTING
PROCESS AND THIS WOULD BE OUR
THIRD.
SO THE SITE WE'RE HERE TO TALK
ABOUT THIS IS TWELVE PARCELS AT
ONE POINT THREE ACRES IN THE
TRIANGULAR BLOCK BETWEEN STATE
AND PACKARD.
WE HAVE FRONTAGE ON TWO BIKE
LANES NORTHBOUND ON STATE
STREET, SOUTHBOUND ON PACARD
AND WE ALSO HAVE DIRECT
FRONTAGE TO A CITY PARK
FORSIGHT PARK.
YOU SEE SOME IMAGES THERE
OF THE STREET VIEW AND WHAT
YOU'RE GOING TO SEE TONIGHT IS
A 15 STORY MIXED USE TOWER
MOSTLY APARTMENTS WITH SOME
RETAIL ON THE GROUND FLOOR.
THREE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY SIX
UNITS WE EIGHTY TWO PARKING
SPACES MOST OF WHICH ARE
UNDERGROUND AND THEN WE HAVE A
COLLECTION OF TOWNHOME UNITS
ALONG PACARD THAT KIND OF MIMIC
THE USE IN THAT DIRECTION AND
WE HAVE RETAIL AND KIND OF AN
OPEN AUTO COURT ALONG STATE.
SO THE THE IDEA IS TO PROVIDE
VERY ACTIVE STREETSCAPES ON
BOTH SIDES OF THE PROJECT AND
WE WOULD BE SHOOTING FOR GROUND
BREAKING IN DECEMBER OF THIS
YEAR TO DELIVER IN TWENTY SEVEN
Q2.
SO THIS IS SO THE PROJECT WILL
INVOLVE SEVERAL OFF SITE
IMPROVEMENTS.
I'LL START WITH THOSE AND THEN
WORK MY WAY IN SO RIGHT NOW
THERE ARE ELEVEN CURB CUTS
ALONG THE FRONT EDGE OF THE
PROPERTY WE WOULD BE PROPOSING
TO CHANGE THAT TO ONLY TWO CURB
CUTS ONE FOR OUR VEHICULAR
ACCESS FROM STATE ANOTHER WHICH
IS KIND OF A PULL OFF AREA FROM
PACARD SO THAT UBER DRIVERS AND
SUCH CAN PULL OUT OF THE STREET
TO MAKE THEIR DROP OFFS.
WE'RE ALSO GOING TO BE ADDING A
CROSSWALK AT HOOVER AND STATE
THE SECOND SUBSTANTIAL UPSIDE
IMPROVEMENT IS WE'RE PROPOSING
TO INVEST UP TO TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
IMPROVEMENTS TO FORSYTH PARK TO
THE SOUTH IN THAT SCOPE WOULD
INCLUDE REFINISHING THE
BASKETBALL COURT, NEW LIGHTING
,NEW BENCHES ALL TO BE
COORDINATED AND APPROVED WITH
CITY STAFF.
AND THIRDLY, WE'RE PROPOSING
INVESTING APPROXIMATELY ONE
POINT SIX DOLLARS DOLLARS IN
THE INFRASTRUCTURE IN TOWN.
ACTUALLY SEVERAL BLOCKS AWAY AS
WE WERE EXPLORING WAYS THAT
MIGHT RESULT IN BETTER KIND
OF ALL ELECTRIC PROSPECTS FOR
THIS PROJECT.
THEY CAME UP WITH A PLAN WHERE
IF WE WERE TO UPDATE THE
CIRCUIT BY CHURCH AND WILLARD
FROM FOUR POINT EIGHT KVI TO
THIRTEEN POINT TWO KVA, THEN
THEY CAN MOVE BUILDINGS OFF
OF THE CIRCUIT THAT CURRENTLY
SERVES OUR SITE FREEING UP
CAPACITY TO SERVE US IN AN ALL
ELECTRIC WAY.
WE CAN TALK ABOUT THAT MORE
LATER BUT WE ARE PROPOSING TO
MAKE THAT INVESTMENT AS PART
OF THIS PROJECT STARTING WITH
THE PLAN AND MOVING UP.
WE HAVE OUR PARKING LEVEL IN
THE BASEMENT.
WE HAVE SEVENTEEN EVVY
INSTALLED SPACES PROPOSED HERE
THAT'S TWENTY PERCENT DOUBLE
THE REQUIREMENT.
THIS IS THE GROUND FLOOR YOU'LL
SEE RETAIL USES OUR MAIN
AMENITY LEVEL IS HERE.
WE HAVE TOWNHOMES PROPOSED
ALONG PACARD AND WE ALSO HAVE
BACKUP HOUSE SPACES AND BIKE
ROOMS.
SO THIS AUTO COURT THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT IS OUR MAIN ENTRY TO
THE LOWER LEVEL GARAGE BUT
WE'VE ALSO DESIGNED IT TO BE
ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE THE
MOVEMENTS OF A TRASH TRUCK SO
TRASH COULD BE COLLECTED
INTERIOR TO THE SITE.
NOBODY HAS TO STOP IN THE
PUBLIC WAY OR BACK UP OUT
OF THE PUBLIC WAY AND IT COULD
ALSO BE PROGRAMED FOR FROM TIME
TO TIME RESIDENT AND PUBLIC
EVENTS WITH FOOD TRUCKS, ET
CETERA BECAUSE IT DOES KIND
OF LINE UP EXACTLY WITH HOOVER
AND IT'S A NICE COURT.
THEY'RE KIND OF AN URBAN SPACE
.
THERE ARE TWO BIKE ROOMS
LABELED HERE A AND B BIKE ROOM
A RUNS RIGHT ON TO THAT PLAZA
AND WE'RE THINKING OF THAT AS
KIND OF A BIKE BAR TYPE
SCENARIO WHERE YOU HAVE FRONT
OF HOUSE TYPE FINISHES AND KIND
OF A VERY PRESENTABLE SPACE.
THERE'S ALSO A BIKE ROOM BE
ALSO ACCESSIBLE FROM THE PLAZA
.
BOTH OF THESE BIKE ROOMS HAVE
AUTOMATIC DOOR OPENERS.
THEY HAVE FRONTAGE DIRECTLY
ONTO THE PLAZA WITH WINDOWS
THAT ALLOW NATURAL LIGHT.
SO ALL TOGETHER WE'RE PROPOSING
THREE HUNDRED AND THIRTY TWO
CLASS A BIKE PARKING SPACES
THAT'S FOUR POINT FOUR TIMES
WHAT'S REQUIRED.
THIS IS THE MEZZANINE LEVEL.
YOU'LL NOTICE THERE ARE SOME
TREES NOTED ON OUR PLAN.
THOSE ARE LANDMARK TREES THAT
WE'RE PROPOSING TO SAVE AS WE
GO UP THROUGH THE PLANS IT
BECOMES KIND OF A TYPICAL
CORRIDOR BUILDING.
BUT NOTE THAT WE ARE PROPOSING
SOME KINKS AND UNDULATIONS TO
REALLY BREAK UP THAT FACADE TO
AVOID ANY OVERLY LONG STRETCHES
OF BUILDING THERE ARE SEVERAL
SETBACKS THAT OCCUR AS YOU GO
UP THE BUILDING AND THEN ON TOP
THERE IS A MINUTI DECK WITH A
POOL AS FAR AS THE ELEVATION AS
FAR AS THE MATERIALITY GOES, WE
ARE PROPOSING HIGH QUALITY
MATERIALS ON ALL FOUR SIDES IN
THE UPPER TOWER THAT IS A
MIXTURE SEMANTICIST CLADDING
AND A METAL PANEL SYSTEM.
YOU KIND OF SEE HOW THAT'S USED
IN THE RENDERING TO THE RIGHT
AND THEN FOR THE PODIUM AT THE
GROUND FLOOR ELEMENT WE HAVE A
WARM BRICK WITH WOOD INLAYS FOR
THE ENTRY AREAS.
THIS IS JUST KIND OF SHOWS YOU
HOW THE BUILDING GETS BROKEN UP
BY THOSE UNDULATIONS.
WE HAVE SEVERAL DIFFERENT
HEIGHTS FOR DIFFERENT PARTS
OF THE BUILDING BECAUSE OF THE
STEP BACK.
SO ON THE RIGHT YOU CAN SEE THE
HEIGHT THAT'S PROPOSED ONE
HUNDRED AND SIXTEEN FEET ON THE
LEFT IS ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
TWO FEET IN THE BEHIND IT'S
EVEN IT'S ONE FLOOR TALLER WE
ARE IN THE LANGUAGE THE
PROPOSED HEIGHT LIMIT IS TWO
HUNDRED FEET INCLUSIVE OF ALL
ROOF TOP EQUIPMENT EITHER THE
RENDERINGS THIS IS BASICALLY
LOOKING SOUTH ON PACARD.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THAT AUTO
COURT FROM HOOVER.
THE LEFT IMAGE HERE IS LOOKING
NORTH ON PACARD SO FORSIGHT
PARK WILL BE DIRECTLY ACROSS
THE STREET FROM YOU TO THE LEFT
AND THEN THE RIGHT IMAGE SHOWS
A SHOT LOOKING DOWN STATE
OF THE BUILDING.
IT STARTS TO TALK ABOUT WHAT
THAT PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE IS
LIKE UP ON STATE WE HAVE THIS
BRICK ELEMENT WITH THESE KIND
OF WARM WOOD INLAYS FOR THE
ENTRY OF THE BUILDING BUT
SIMILAR LANGUAGE ALONG PACARD
WHERE YOU HAVE THESE TOWNHOMES
WE STILL HAVE THIS WOOD INLAY
SECTIONS THAT KIND COMMUNICATE
AN ENTRANCE TO THE BUILDING.
SO OUR SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
INCLUDES PROVIDING A LEAD
SILVER BUILDING.
WE ARE PROPOSING A MOSTLY
ELECTRIC BUILDING WITH
AUXILIARY GAS BACKUP FOR HOT
WATER GENERATION.
HOWEVER WE WILL INVEST THE ONE
POINT SIX DOLLARS MILLION IN
THE UPGRADES AND THE PLAN WOULD
BE TO BASICALLY VET OUT THAT
DUPLICATIVE HOT WATER
GENERATION IF THEY CAN DELIVER
MORE POWER IN TIME.
SO THAT WOULD BE BY JANUARY
OF TWENTY FIVE.
IF NOT WE HAVE TO HAVE AN
ESCAPE HATCH BECAUSE IT WOULD
BE A DISASTER TO DELIVER A
BUILDING YOU CANNOT SERVE ALONG
WITH THAT THERE ARE OTHER
NOTEWORTHY PARTS OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY PLAN WE ARE
PROVIDING ROOFTOP SOLAR THAT
WOULD GENERATE ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND KILOWATT
HOURS OF CAPACITY.
WE ARE PROVIDING THE STANDARD
LOW FLOW APPLIANCES SPECKING
LOW E MATERIALS.
WE'RE PROVIDING FIVE TIMES THE
REQUIRED CLASS OR FOUR POINT
FOUR TIMES A REQUIRED CLASS A
BIKE PARKING DOUBLE THE
REQUIRED EV INSTALLED PARKING
SPACES AND A COMPOST ROOM FOR
RESIDENTS.
SO THERE'S A LOT HERE THAT
WE'RE DOING NOTABLY THE
INVESTMENT IN THE GRID AND SO
AS A CONCLUSION I BELIEVE I GOT
THROUGH ALL THAT SO FAST.
WE ARE PROVIDING A WHOLE SLEW
OF PUBLIC BENEFITS WITH THIS
PROJECT SO NOT ONLY ARE WE
INCREASING THE HOUSING STOCK
AND IMPLICITLY HELPING TO
ALLEVIATE THE HOUSING CRISIS IN
TOWN, WE'RE PROVIDING
SUSTAINABLE LEED SILVER
CONSTRUCTION.
WE'RE INCREASING REAL ESTATE
TAX BASE.
WE'RE CREATING JOBS.
WE'RE ADDING ACTIVE USES AT THE
GROUND FLOOR.
SO THAT'S RETAIL.
THAT'S TOWNHOMES.
THAT IS THIS OPEN KIND OF AUTO
COURT.
WE'RE REMOVING NINE CURB CUTS
MAKING THE INVESTMENT TO THE
GRID ONE POINT SIX MILLION
DOLLARS TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
THOUSAND IN THE ADJACENT PARK
WE'RE PROPOSING TO INVEST ONE
PERCENT MORE INTO THE
AFFORDABLE FUND THAN WOULD BE
REQUIRED.
THAT'S FOUR HUNDRED AND
THIRTEEN THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR
EACH PERCENTAGE POINT
AND THEN
WE WILL COORDINATE WITH THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT TO ALLOW THEM
TO CONDUCT THE TRAINING WITH
OUR PROPERTY LINE TO THE EXTENT
WE CAN BEFORE WE DEMOLISH THOSE
BUILDINGS ON THE WAY UP.
SO WITH THAT THAT CLOSES OUT.
THANK YOU FOR THE TIME.
APPRECIATE IT.
AND THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU.
I'LL COVER A FEW MUNDANE
DETAILS AND THEN I'LL MOVE IN
TO OUR STAFF ANALYSIS.
I THINK AS MENTIONED BUT I'LL
MAKE SURE IT'S CLEAR THAT THIS
IS A SITE THAT CONSISTS
OF TWELVE LOTS IT HAS ELEVEN
BUILDINGS ON IT CURRENTLY AND
ALL ARE ZONED C ONE A CIGAR
THAT IS A DISTRICT THAT IS
INTENDED TO INCLUDE QUOTE
MOSTLY QUOTE INTENDED TO
ENCOURAGE THE ORDERLY
CLUSTERING AND PLACEMENT
OF HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AND
COMPLEMENTARY COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT NEAR THE CAMPUS
BUSINESS DISTRICT.
IT ALLOWS UP TO 300 PERCENT FOR
EVERY RATIO AND HAS NO MINIMUM
LOT SIZE STAFF REPORT GOES
REALIST'S THE PURPORTED
BENEFICIAL EFFECTS OF THE
PLANNING OF THIS PARTICULAR
PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
THESE ARE ALSO LISTED
IDENTICALLY IN SECTION THREE
OF THE DRAFT SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS I THINK HIGHLIGHTS
WELL THE ACTUAL PURPORTED
BENEFICIAL EFFECTS WERE WELL
COVERED BY MR. SAVOY'S
PRESENTATION REAL HIGH LEVEL
THE BENEFICIAL EFFECTS INCLUDE
LEED STANDARDS, INTEGRATED
SOLAR POWER, ADDITIONAL
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING
INFRASTRUCTURE, ELECTRIC READY
BUILDING INCREASED DENSITY,
REDUCED SPRAWLING VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED AFFORDABLE HOUSING,
HOUSING CITY STREETSCAPE
ACTIVATION AND NEIGHBORHOOD
PARK IMPROVEMENTS.
STAFF REPORT TALKS A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT A COMPARISON OF THE
CURRENT AND PROPOSED ZONING
DISTRICTS.
IN SUMMARY, THE INTENT AND
PERMITTED USES ARE SIMILAR THE
DIMENSIONAL ASPECTS OF THE
CURRENT AND PROPOSED ZONING ARE
REGULATED IN OPPOSITE MANNERS.
BUT MY OPINION AT THE END
OF THE DAY THE KIND OF THEY ARE
SIMILAR BUT THE CURRENT ZONING
DISTRICT IS REGULATED BY FLOOR
AREA RATIO WITHOUT A HEIGHT
LIMIT AND THE PROPOSED DISTRICT
IS REGULATED BY A HEIGHT LIMIT
WITHOUT A FLOOR AREA RATIO AND
ALSO INCLUDES BUILDING COVERAGE
AND OPEN SPACE STANDARDS.
SO BOTH ARE TRYING TO GET AT
MACING IN DIFFERENT WAYS.
AND THEN FINALLY THE
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS LIKE
PARKING, SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ARE
GENERALLY MORE STRINGENT IN THE
PROPOSED PUDI DISTRICT KEEP MY
PAGES ORGANIZED
.
WE HAVE GONE THROUGH IT AND
ALSO AN ANALYSIS OF THE ZONING
DISTRICT REVIEW STANDARDS.
THERE ARE SEVEN RIGHT THERE
EIGHT THERE ARE EIGHT OF THEM.
I WON'T GO THROUGH THEM ALL BUT
WHAT WE HAVE FOUND THAT THIS
PROPOSAL MEETS THE ZONING MEETS
THE STANDARDS OF APPROVAL.
I'LL POINT OUT THE FIRST
STANDARD IS THAT THE USES
PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS,
DESIGN FEATURES OR AMENITIES
PROPOSED HAVE A BENEFICIAL
EFFECT FOR THE CITY STAFF FEEL
THAT THE ZONING DISTRICT
REQUIRES LEED CERTIFICATION, AN
INTEGRATED SOLAR PANELS,
ADDITIONAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGING STATIONS, LIMITS ON
NATURAL GAS CONNECTIONS
INCREASES AND REQUIRES A
CERTAIN CERTAIN DENSITY
REQUIRES AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
IMPROVEMENTS TO PUBLIC PARKS
AND STREETSCAPE ACTIVATION AND
THESE DESIGN FEATURES AND
AMENITIES ON SITE THAT WILL
HAVE A BENEFICIAL EFFECT FOR
THE CITY.
WE'VE ALSO FOUND FOUR STANDARD
NUMBER TWO THAT THIS BENEFICIAL
EFFECT COULD NOT BE ACHIEVED
UNDER ANY OTHER ZONING
CLASSIFICATION IS NOT REQUIRED
TO BE PROVIDED BY THE EXISTING
STANDARDS.
WE HAVE FOUND THAT OTHER ZONING
CLASSIFICATIONS EITHER DO NOT
REQUIRE THE BENEFICIAL EFFECTS
LISTED OR THEY DON'T REQUIRE IT
TO THE DEGREE PROPOSED AND I'VE
GONE THROUGH SEVERAL POINTS IN
OUR STEFANELLI THIS I WON'T
REPEAT THEM TONIGHT BUT I WILL
POINT OUT THAT AS A PACKAGE THE
BENEFICIAL EFFECTS OF THIS 732
PACARD PUDI BETTER ACHIEVE THE
OVERARCHING GOALS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WHICH HAVE
BEEN ACCEPTED AS ENCOURAGING
MORE DENSE DEVELOPMENT WITH A
PARTICULAR EMPHASIS ON MORE
HOUSING OVERALL AND A WIDER
RANGE OF HOUSING TYPES AND
ENCOURAGING MORE SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT AND LIVING
ARRANGEMENTS WITH LESS OR NO
RELIANCE ON PERSONAL VEHICLES
AND REDUCE VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED THAN THE UNDERLYING
DISTRICT.
AND GIVEN THAT THE UNDERLYING
C1 IS OUR DISTRICT DESIGNATION
OF THE SITE AND SURROUNDING
AREA, THE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
OF THIS PROPOSED PUDI ARE IN
KEEPING WITH A GENERALIZED
GOALS AND STRATEGIES OF THE
LAND USE ELEMENT THAT EMPHASIZE
AN ORDERLY TRANSITION BETWEEN
HIGHER DENSITY OF COMMERCIAL
AND RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS.
THE DESIGN AND MACING OF THIS
PROJECT SUFFICIENTLY ALIGNS
WITH THE POTENTIAL CHARACTER
OF THE SURROUNDING REMAINING C1
EWR DISTRICT.
WE ALSO HAVE A SITE PLAN THE
SITE PLAN ANALYSIS IN THE STAFF
REPORT SITE PLAN HAS BEEN
REVIEWED BY OUR STAFF TEAM AND
WE FIND THAT IT MEETS ALL
OF THE APPLICABLE STANDARDS.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF MINOR
CLARIFICATIONS AND LITTLE
TIDBITS THAT NEED TO BE TAKEN
CARE OF ON THE SITE PLAN THAT
WILL BE TAKEN CARE OF PRIOR TO
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL SHOULD
THIS MOVE ON THE STAFF REPORT
ALSO GO THROUGH SOME OF THOSE
SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT DETAILS
LIKE THE REPORTING WHAT IS THE
FLOOR AREA RATIO, THE NUMBER
OF DWELLING UNITS AND THE RANGE
BETWEEN APARTMENTS AND
TOWNHOUSES, HEIGHT AND SETBACKS
AND SO FORTH AND PROVIDES
INFORMATION ABOUT THE ACCESS
PLAN, LANDSCAPE PLAN,
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES.
THERE ARE TWO PROPOSED MOTIONS
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE STAFF
REPORT AND STAFF RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL AND SUPPORTS BOTH.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY FOLLOW UP
QUESTIONS AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
NOW WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE ITEM OR FIRST
CALL ON INDIVIDUALS PRESENT AND
THEN PROMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR RACE AND FUTURE APPEALING TO
THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS,
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING EIGHTY
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS THE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED STATEMENT
SAYING THAT HOST IS ALLOWING
YOU TO SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA
MUTE BACKGROUND NOISES SO WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATE.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
GOOD EVENING.
I'M DAN TRICORP.
I'M AN ATTORNEY REPRESENTING
THE NEIGHBOR IS 1716 PACARD.
I'M THE ADDRESS OF THREE FIFTY
S MAIN ECONOMY KENNETH OLBRICH
HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
YOU'VE SEEN SOME RENDERINGS
OF THIS PROPERTY AND YOU WILL
NOTE THAT MY CLIENT'S STRUCTURE
IS NOT ACTUALLY SHOWN IN THOSE
RENDERINGS.
MY CLIENT IS THE OWNER OF THE
BUILDING WHERE THE DOMINO'S
PIZZA IS CURRENTLY LOCATED.
I THINK YOU ALL I'M SURE KNOW
THIS INTERSECTION OF A VERY
IMPORTANT AND VITAL
INTERSECTION IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
THIS DEVELOPMENT IS COMING IN
UNDER DO BECAUSE UNDER THE
CURRENT ZONING IT CAN'T GO
BEYOND THREE HUNDRED PERCENT
AND FLOOR AREA RATIO.
THE PROPOSAL WILL TAKE IT TO
SEVEN HUNDRED NINETY FIVE
PERCENT.
THAT'S MORE THAN TWO AND A HALF
INCREASE.
THAT'S QUITE A SUBSTANTIAL
INCREASE IN DENSITY.
ONE OF THE STANDARDS FOR THIS
INCREASE IN DENSITY WHICH CAN
ONLY BE DONE BY A PD IS TO SHOW
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL IMPACT ON
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
THAT'S THE THIRD CRITERION IN
THE LIST FOR PD CONSIDERATIONS
IN THIS CASE WE CONTEND THERE'S
BEEN NO CONSIDERATION AT ALL
OF THE IMPACTS ON MY CLIENT'S
PROPERTY.
WE HAVE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH THE
CITY.
WE'VE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH THE
LEASE PEOPLE ASSOCIATED WITH
THE DEVELOPER.
I SENT A LETTER ON BEHALF
OF 716 PACARD BACK IN FEBRUARY
20TH BUT WE'VE REALLY GOT
NOTHING TO NO ATTENTION TO THE
POTENTIAL IMPACTS ON THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY.
IT IS OUR CONTENTION THAT YOU
JUST CAN'T DO THIS.
YOU CAN'T RUBBER STAMP APD
WITHOUT ACTUALLY GOING THROUGH
AND GIVING MATERIAL
CONSIDERATION TO EACH OF THESE
FACTORS.
SO IN THIS CASE WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE SOMETHING THAT IS TWO
POINT SIXTY FIVE TIMES MORE
DENSE THAN WHAT IS PERMITTED
UNDER THE CURRENT ZONING
DISTRICT RIGHT.
THE PIPELINE IT'S GOING TO BE
TWO HUNDRED FEET HIGH IN
GRANITE.
THERE'S NO CURRENT RESTRICTION
BUT YOU KNOW, IF YOU ARE
LIMITED TO THREE HUNDRED IF
THEY ARE BEING A PERCENT, YOU
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO BUILD WHAT
THEY'RE PROPOSING.
IT WOULD BE DIFFERENT.
SO WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS
MAXIMIZING DENSITY.
IT'S GOING TO HAVE IMPACTS ON
OUR PROPERTY IN TERMS OF SHADE
,IN TERMS OF WIND AND SNOW.
IT'S KIND OF BASICALLY DUMPED
THINGS DOWN ONTO THE CURRENT
STRUCTURE AND LIMIT WHAT WE CAN
DO IN THE FUTURE.
SO I UNDERSTAND THERE'S A LOT
GOING ON HERE.
I UNDERSTAND THE BIG PROJECT
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO GO THROUGH
THESE CRITERIA AND SAY THAT
THEY HAVE BEEN MET AND IF NOT
YOU SHOULD BE RECOMMENDED TO
CITY COUNCIL THAT THEY NOT
APPROVE THIS PLAN OR
ALTERNATIVELY TABLE IT AND HAVE
THEM DO A STUDY OR SHADOW STUDY
TO SHOW THE IMPACT ON MY
CLIENT'S PROPERTY AND TO
MITIGATE THOSE AND ONLY THEN
CONSIDER MAKING A
RECOMMENDATION TO THE CITY
COUNCIL.
SO IT'S YOU KNOW, I UNDERSTAND
A LOT OF FACTORS HERE BUT
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO SAY THAT
EACH AND EVERY ONE IS MET.
THERE HAS BEEN NO ANALYSIS, NO
STUDY, NO NOTHING TO SHOW THAT
MY CLIENT'S PROPERTY WON'T BE
IMPACTED AND IN FACT WE BELIEVE
WILL BE IMPACTED QUITE
SEVERELY.
AND I JUST WANT TO CLOSE
ESTHETICALLY WHAT YOU'RE SEEING
IS NOT WHAT'S REALLY GOING TO
HAPPEN.
MY CLIENT'S PROPERTY WITH A IS
STILL GOING TO BE THERE AND THE
PROFILE OF THIS IS GOING TO BE
NOT WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING AT AND
BEING ASKED TO APPROVE THIS
EVENING.
THANK THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER FOLKS
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION PLEASE?
HI MY NAME'S LYN KELLY.
I LIVE AT NINETEEN TWELVE
ANDERSON I AM PRO DEVELOPMENT
CLEARLY WE NEED TO HAVE MORE
DENSITY.
I'M NOT OPPOSED TO THAT HOWEVER
14 STORIES OR MAYBE FIFTEEN
WELL BEFORE I SAY THAT IT SEEMS
TO BE A VERY THOUGHTFUL DESIGN.
I APPRECIATE THE
SUSTAINABILITY.
I APPRECIATE APPRECIATE THE
ESTHETICS.
I APPRECIATE TRYING TO SET BACK
DIFFERENT PARTS OF IT IN
DIFFERENT WAYS.
SO IT'S NOT A HUGE MASS ON THE
SIDEWALK.
I WISH IT DIDN'T HAVE TO BE
FIVE FEET SETBACKS BUT I GET IT
IF YOU'RE TRYING TO RAM A LOT
OF APARTMENTS IN THERE YOU HAVE
TO HAVE A LOT OF FLOOR SPACE, A
BIG FOOTPRINT BUT 14 STOREYS OR
I THINK I HEARD YOU SAY 15
STORIES IN A NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE
THE PREVAILING STRUCTURES ARE
THREE OR FOUR STORIES THAT JUST
SEEMS TO ME TO BE NOT IN
KEEPING WITH THE CHARACTER
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THE STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING THIS AND I ALSO
UNDERSTAND THAT I'M DAVID
AGAINST GOLIATH HERE BUT IT
JUST SEEMS LIKE A SEVEN STORY
APARTMENT BUILDING THERE WOULD
BE GREAT IT'S A GREAT PLACE TO
DEVELOP.
I ASSUME THAT DOMINO'S WAS PART
OF THIS.
I'M A LITTLE SURPRISED TO HEAR
THAT DOMINO'S ISN'T ONE
OF THESE PARCELS BUT THAT SEEMS
TO BE ANOTHER ISSUE I GUESS SO
I'M ARGUING FOR CAN'T WE
CAPITAL SEVEN STORIES THAT'S
ALREADY MASSIVE.
THANK YOU.
WELCOME.
HEY, UH MY NAME IS BELLA MAZARI
AND I LIVE AT 7-ELEVEN ARCH
STREET, MY APARTMENT BUILDING
ALONG WITH A COLLECTION
OF HOUSES IN A PARK WILL REMAIN
ON THIS BLOCK ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
THESE EXISTING HIGH TRAFFIC
AREA POPULAR WITH STUDENTS.
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT HAS A
LOT GOING FOR IT AND YOU'VE
HEARD ABOUT THAT AND WE'LL HEAR
ABOUT THAT TODAY IN LIGHT
OF PREVIOUS COMMENTS ABOUT THE
USE OF PD, LET'S TALK ABOUT HOW
WE CAN PUT THIS ONE TO WORK IN
A UNIQUE WAY.
THIS PUDI INCLUDES A
STIPULATION THAT THE DEVELOPERS
PAY FOR IMPROVEMENTS TO FORSYTH
PARK WHICH I'VE BEEN HOPING TO
SEE SINCE I MOVED HERE.
THE PARK IS NEGLECTED AND
WALLED IN FROM THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AS IT EXISTS NOW WHAT I WOULD
LIKE TO SEE AS PART OF HIS
CONTRIBUTION IS PUBLIC PATHWAY
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY CONNECTING STATE TO
PACARD.
THIS WOULD INCREASE ACCESS TO
THE PARK AND RESIDENCES LIKE
MINE ALONG THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY FOR
PEDESTRIANS.
MEANWHILE THIS WOULD ALSO
DIRECTLY CONNECT TO THE NEW
BICYCLE FACILITIES ALONG SOUTH
STATE STREET AND ATHLETIC
FACILITIES AND THE PROPOSED
BUILDING'S FRONT ENTRANCE A
PUBLIC PATH ALONG THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THIS DEVELOPMENT WOULD
BE A WONDERFUL CONTRIBUTION TO
THE STREETSCAPE.
EVERY DAY I SEE PEOPLE USING
THE PARKING LOT BEHIND MY
BUILDING TO CUT THROUGH THE
BLOCK.
RIGHT NOW I THINK THE DEVELOPER
PROPOSES THE FENCES AREA OFF
ONCE THE BUILDING IS UP AND
STARTED A PUBLIC PARK COULD
ALLOW THIS FLOW OF PEDESTRIANS
TO EXIST IN A SAFE WELCOMING
ENVIRONMENT.
PARTIES ARE GIVE AND TAKE.
THIS IS A SMALL BUT IMPACTFUL
WAY DEVELOPER CAN MAKE A MAJOR
CONTRIBUTION TO THE PUBLIC GOOD
AND THE CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
MY BALCONY LOOKS RIGHT BACK AT
THIS PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
I WOULD MUCH RATHER SEE A
WELCOMING SPACE THERE THAN A
WALLED OFF ALLEYWAY.
ALL I ASK IS THAT THIS 14 STORY
APARTMENT BUILDING THAT WILL
SOON RISE ABOVE MY HOME INCLUDE
A SMALL IMPROVEMENT TO THE
BUILT ENVIRONMENT AS PART
OF ITS CONTRIBUTION TO THE CITY
UNDER THE PRE.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE THAT
WOULD LIKE PRESENT?
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION.
MR. MOORE, ARE YOU ON BEHALF
OF THE PETITIONER OR YOU OK ALL
RIGHT.
ALTHOUGH I AM WORKING WITH THE
PETITIONER OK I JUST WANTED TO
BRING SOME OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS WHO HAVE WORKED
HERE DURING OUR CONFERENCE UP
TO SPEED AND KIND REFRESH OUR
MEMORIES OF THOSE OF YOU THAT
WERE ON THAT PUTIT CONFERENCE.
WE'VE INCORPORATED MANY OF THE
SUGGESTIONS FROM THAT PREPARED
CONFERENCE THAT YOU'LL SEE IN
THIS DESIGN I BELIEVE,
COMMISSIONER, WHICH YOU HAD
BEEN CONCERNED ABOUT THE NUMBER
OF CORPORATES ON THE PACARD
WHERE THERE'S A PIKELET AND
PROXIMATE TO OUR BUILDING.
SO WE'VE ELIMINATED THE ONE
KIRKUP THAT WENT TO OUR
UNDERGROUND PARKING COMMAND IT
TO THE STAGE THREE KIRPAN.
SO NOW WE DON'T HAVE THAT
POTENTIAL CONFLICT WITH THE
BICYCLIST I BELIEVE WAS
COMMISSIONER GIBS RANDALL WHO
WANTED US TO INVEST IN
ARBORISTS TO DETERMINE WHICH
OF THE LANDMARK TREES ON THE
SITE HAD THE GREATEST CHANCE
SURVIVABILITY AND THOSE ARE THE
TWO OF THE FOUR THAT ARE THERE
ARE THE TWO WE'VE SHOWN AS
REMAINING OR THE ONES THAT ARE
ARBERG SAID HAD THE HIGHEST
LIKELIHOOD OF BEING FINE.
THERE ARE SANDWICHED BETWEEN
THE FOUNDATIONS OF TWO OF THE
EXISTING BUILDINGS AND SO ONCE
THOSE BUILDINGS ARE REMOVED,
HIGH CAPACITY HIGH QUALITY
SOILS CAN BE REPLACED AND
NURTURE THOSE TREES SO THEY'RE
THE HIGHEST LIKELIHOOD
OF SURVIVING.
I BELIEVE COMMISSIONER MILLS IS
ONE OF THE OF THE COMMISSIONERS
THAT TALKED ABOUT THE FACT THAT
A HIGH QUALITY DESIGN IS A
PUBLIC BENEFIT AND THAT WE
SHOULD REALLY KEY IN AND FOCUS
ON THE PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE ON
BOTH THE STREETS SORT OUT ADDED
THE TOWNHOUSE UNITS AND YOU'LL
SEE WE HAVE SPENT A LOT
OF ATTENTION TO THE STREETSCAPE
AND HOW THE PEDESTRIANS
INTERACT WITH THE PROJECT AND
YOU'LL SEE THAT IN OUR SO THAT
JUST BY WAY OF SAYING WE HAVE
BEEN RESPONSIVE THE COMMENTS
WE'VE HEARD FROM THE COMMISSION
BEFORE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION?
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO HANDS AS MR. CHAIR
I'M SORRY ONE TWO HANDS WERE
JUST RAISED ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S WHY WE GIVE IT A MOMENT.
THANK YOU.
BATUMI MISCAVIGE.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
HI, THIS IS ADAM MISCAVIGE
CALLING FROM LAS VEGAS DRIVING
FORWARD ORDER.
I WOULD LIKE TO SUPPORT STAFF
RECOMMENDATION THIS REZONING
ESTATE PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT BE APPROVED FOR ALL
THE REASONS OUTLINED IN THE
STEP FORWARD INCLUDING THE
ADDITIONAL HOUSING AND DENSITY
IN A WALKABLE AREA CLOSE TO
STUDENT DESTINATIONS,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, A DESIRABLE
SUSTAINABILITY STANDARD FOR
PARK IMPROVEMENTS AND FOR THIS
PROJECT MEETS OUR STANDARDS AND
WILL PROVIDE THE SIGNIFICANT
BENEFIT TO THE CITY AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WE ARE
HOUSING PRICES AND THEN CLIMATE
CRISIS AND ADDING A SIGNIFICANT
NUMBER OF HOUSING UNITS IN AN
AREA WHERE MOST OF THE
RESIDENTS WILL NEED TO DRIVE A
CAR WILL GO A LONG WAY TOWARD
ADDRESSING BOTH OF THESE WERE
ALSO THE TRAFFIC VIOLENCE
CRISIS AND ELIMINATED TO CURB
CUTS WILL SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVE
PEDESTRIANS AND CYCLISTS ALONG
TWO MAJOR CORRIDORS.
I ALSO SUPPORT A COMMENT THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER MADE EARLIER THE
FORMAT OF STAFF REPORTS I'VE
SEEN IN THIS MEETING MAKES IT A
LOT EASIER TO SEE WHERE A
PROJECT DOES AND DOES NOT MEET
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE UDC.
THANK YOU FOR MAKING THIS
CHANGE.
I HOPE THAT YOU PASS THIS
TONIGHT AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
SEEING IT SO I'D ALSO LIKE TO
MENTION THAT THE DOMINOES IS
GOING TO SELL A OF A LOT
OF PIZZA.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MICHELLE HUGHES, YOU
HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR PRIME
MINISTER.
CAN I HAVE THIS NOW AND NOW
KABIRA MARSHALL JOHNSON HAS
SAID ONE OF THE ASSETS HE
CO-WROTE AND IN MY EXPERIENCE
FROM LIVING IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD WHAT IS NEEDED IS
MORE HOUSING FOR THE PEOPLE WHO
LIVE HERE.
THERE'S A LOT OF STUDENTS IN
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEY JUST
CRAMMED INTO THESE HOUSES AND
IT'S IT WOULD BE BETTER TO HAVE
THEM AND HOUSING THAT TYPE
OF CRIME THAT HAS THAT'S IN
DOWNTOWN AND YOU KNOW, I THINK
THAT'S A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT, YOU
KNOW, IS GENERALLY TRUE SO IT
CAN'T BECOME A NEIGHBORHOOD 17
STORES UNTIL SOMEONE DOES IT
FIRST.
SO LET THIS BE THE FIRST
BECAUSE THEY'RE BETWEEN I ALSO
THAT THE THE CURRENT CAN BUT
THEY COMMAND HAVE THAT BECAUSE
I'D LIKE TO HAVE MY PINEAPPLE'S
THAT I'D LOVE TO HAVE MY
NEIGHBORS OFF.
CARACALLA THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS ON
THE LINE?
PROBABLY WITH PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN ONE NINE FOR YOU
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS PLANNING
COMMISSION
CLOSING HERE?
YES, WE CAN.
OK, THANK YOU.
HOPE FREEDOM FOR CALLING FROM
41ST STREET ON THE OTHER SIDE
AND MY CONCERN WITH THIS
PROJECT IS PROOF PRESENTED HAS
TO DO WITH ONE ADDITIONAL
ELEMENT THAT HASN'T BEEN
DISCUSSED WILL BE A VERY TALL
BUILDING IN AN AREA THAT'S
REALLY AT MOST TWO STOREY
REGION IN THAT PARTICULAR PART
OF TOWN AND I'LL BE RAISING A
LOT WINDOWS SPACE THAT WOULD BE
A RISK FOR BIRDS IN THE AREA
AND I WOULD THINK THAT THE
DEVELOPER STRONGLY INCLUDE
BIRTH SAFE WHICH IS PROTECTED
BY ABOUT TWO INCHES APART FROM
EACH WINDOW TO PREVENT BIRD
STRIKES.
THE BEST POSSIBLE OUTCOME
ANTICIPATE A FAIR NUMBER
OF WEATHER.
UNFORTUNATELY AROUND THE
BUILDING THAT WOULD BE QUITE
IMPORTANT FOR THE AND FOR THE
PUBLIC.
I WOULD COMMENT THAT I
APPRECIATE THE ATTENTION TO THE
PARK NEARBY FOREST PARK HAS
BEEN IGNORED FOR A LONG TIME
AND IT'S GREAT THAT THE
PHOTOGRAPHER IS PAYING
ATTENTION AND
PREPARING TO
SUPPORT IMPROVEMENTS IN THAT
PARK.
SO THAT'S REALLY ALL I HAVE TO
SAY.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO FOLLOW THAT AS
A DEVELOPER IN THE CHICAGO AREA
THE ATTENTION TO BIRDS SHOULD
BE SOMETHING THAT WILL BE QUITE
FAMILIAR BECAUSE OF THE MANY
STRIKES THAT HAPPEN IN THAT
CITY.
THANK YOU THERE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON THE LINE?
YES.
ADAM GOODMAN, YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS PLANNING
COMMISSION.
HI, THIS IS ADAM GOODMAN
SPEAKING TO YOU FROM THE FIFTH
WARD.
I THINK THIS IS A FANTASTIC
PROJECT.
I HOPE THAT I HAD ONE SMALL
CONCERN WHICH IS ABOUT PARKING
LOOKS TO ME LIKE ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT OF THE BIKE PARKING
SPACES ARE CLASSIC.
THIS IS GENERALLY SOMETHING
THAT'S ALLOWED BY OUR CODE OUR
PRESUMES THAT CLASS IS ALWAYS
BETTER THAN CLASS B AND CLASS B
IS ALWAYS BETTER THAN CLASSY.
AND I THINK ABOUT THIS TO YOUR
ATTENTION BEFORE.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT THIS IS
ACTUALLY TRUE AND IN REALITY
BECAUSE SAFE SPACES ARE
GENERALLY LOCKED UP AND SO IN
IN A BUILDING LIKE THIS THEY
WOULD ONLY BE AVAILABLE FOR
RESIDENTS I PREFER TO SEE IN IN
THIS PROJECT AND PROJECTS LIKE
IT A MIX OF CLASS SPACES FOR
RESIDENTS AND A CLASS B OR C
SPACES FOR VISITORS TO THE
BUILDING AND I SEE SOMETHING
THAT YOU CAN MAYBE EXPLORE WITH
THE DEVELOPER TONIGHT.
BUT REGARDLESS OF THAT, THAT'S
ANOTHER POINT I OVERALL THINK
THIS IS A FANTASTIC PROJECT AND
HOPE YOU WILL APPROVE IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN.
AND THE THE CALLERS THERE DO
NOT APPEAR TO BE MORE KOLLER'S
OK.
ALL RIGHT.
JUST ONE MORE SECOND.
OK WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE UP A
COMMENT.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTIONS TO TAKE THEM TOGETHER
UNLESS THERE IS STRONG
OPPOSITION TO TAKE THEM
SEPARATELY.
OK, OK ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO READ THE MOTION.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVED
THE SEVEN THREE TWO PACARD PD
DELLING ZONING DISTRICT AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AND
THE SECOND MOTION BEING THE ANN
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
RECOMMENDS THAT THE CITY AND
MAYOR CITY COUNCIL AND MAYOR
APPROVE THE SEVEN THREE TWO
PACARD SITE PLAN AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT SUBJECT
TO OUTSTANDING ADDRESSING THE
OUTSTANDING COMMENTS FROM STAFF
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WAITZ
.
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER THIS THANK YOU CHARLIE.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE THINGS
THAT I APPRECIATE ABOUT THIS
PROJECT.
I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
AT THE INTENT AND PERMITTED
USES OF THIS PUDI ARE SIMILAR
TO THE EXISTING C R UNDERLYING
DISTRICT IN BOTH ARE DESIGNED
TO ENCOURAGE ORDERLY CLUSTERING
AND PLACEMENT OF HIGH DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT NEAR
CAMPUS.
THE PUDI WILL ACHIEVE THIS BY
COORDINATED DEVELOPMENT
OF TWELVE PARCELS INTO A MORE
EFFICIENT FOURTEEN STOREY
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT THAN
WHAT IS CURRENTLY THERE.
YES, THE HEIGHT INCREASE IS
SIGNIFICANT RELATIVE TO WHAT IS
THERE BUT RATHER THAN FOCUS ON
HEIGHT I'D LIKE TO SPEAK
BRIEFLY ABOUT DENSITY AND
EFFICIENCY.
THE PROJECT WILL BE TWO POINT
SIX TIMES THE UNDERLYING
DENSITY AND IT WILL DELIVER 376
DWELLING UNITS WHICH IS MORE
THAN TEN TIMES THE NUMBER
OF DWELLING UNITS THAT THE
PARCELS CURRENTLY PROVIDE WHICH
I UNDERSTAND IS THIRTY THREE.
THAT IS A VERY GOOD RATIO
OF DENSITY INCREASE TO HOUSING
UNIT INCREASE.
I'M NOT GOING TO GO OVER THE
BENEFITS BECAUSE THEY'VE BEEN
SKETCHED OUT A COUPLE OF TIMES
AND THEY ARE NUMEROUS AND
EXCITING.
I'M I'M REALLY INTERESTED TO
SEE HOW THE INVESTMENT OF ONE
POINT SIX MILLION ADITYA'S DTD
INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS OUT.
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU ARE DOING
THIS WITHOUT A CLEAR GUARANTEE
THAT CAPACITY THE CAPACITY THAT
YOU NEED WILL BE AVAILABLE WHEN
YOU NEED IT.
SO IF IT ISN'T, UH WILL WILL
YOU HAVE SOME GAS
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WILL BECOME
SORT OF WHAT IS IT EXTRANEOUS.
THAT'S THE WORD I'M LOOKING FOR
YEAH.
PERMIT THIS BUILDING AS A
HYBRID BUILDING A GAS BOILER
FOR AUXILIARY HOT WATER
GENERATION IF WITHIN 18 MONTHS
OF WHEN WE INTEND TO DELIVER WE
CAN GET AWAY WITH VALUE
ENGINEERING THAT OUT OF OUR
PRICE WE WILL.
BUT BEFORE WE SAY WE'RE GOING
TO DO THAT, WE NEED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE CAN GET THE POWER
TO ACTUALLY SERVE THE BUILDING
AS ALL ELECTRIC AND REDUCE THE
NEED FOR THAT BOILER.
OK, SO ARE YOU PROVIDING WATER
HEAT?
THAT'S CORRECT.
SO WE WOULD HAVE A GAS BOILER
FOR WATER HEAT NOT ONLY FOR THE
RETAIL PORTION BUT FOR THE
RESIDENTIAL PORTION AS WELL.
THAT'S THE ELEMENT THAT TAKES
THE MOST ELECTRICITY AND IT'S
HARD TO DO THAT WHEN THE GRID
IS OVERLOADED PARTICULARLY IN
THE WINTER.
AND SO THAT'S WHEN THAT WOULD
PRIMARY THE BOILER IF WE WERE
TO BUILD THAT BUILDING WITH THE
AUXILIARY BOILER THAT'S WHEN
THE BOILER WOULD BE MOST ACTIVE
WOULD BE DURING THE WINTER
MONTHS IF WE CAN GET THE POWER
TO NOT HAVE THE BOILER WE
CERTAINLY DON'T WANT TO PAY FOR
IT SO WE WOULD RATHER NOT BUILD
IT GIVEN THAT WE HAVE ALREADY
HAD TO EXTEND POWER TO OUR SITE
.
SO THE PLAN WOULD BE TO HAVE
THE ABILITY TO DO THE BOILER IF
WE NEED IT WITHOUT COMING BACK
TO CITY COUNCIL OR PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THEN TRY NOT TO
AND THEN YOU CAN HEAT YOU CAN
HEAT A BUILDING USING
ESSENTIALLY RADIATORS WITH
ELECTRICITY.
YOU CAN HIT THE WATER WITH
RIGHT.
ELECTRICITY.
SO WELL THAT'S COOL.
RIGHT.
THAT'S A WATER SOURCE HEATING
SO WELL THAT'S COOL.
SYSTEM.
THAT'S A WATER SOURCE HEATING
THAT'S VERY COOL.
SYSTEM.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S VERY COOL.
I'M TRYING NOT TO BE TOO SLOW
THANK YOU.
BUT JUST WANTED TO SPELL IT ALL
I'M TRYING NOT TO BE TOO SLOW
OUT SO I CAN EXPLAIN.
BUT JUST WANTED TO SPELL IT ALL
UM OK SO THAT IS GREAT.
OUT SO I CAN EXPLAIN.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
UM OK SO THAT IS GREAT.
I WAS GOING TO ASK YOU ABOUT
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
COMPOST BUT YOU MENTIONED THAT
I WAS GOING TO ASK YOU ABOUT
THERE WILL BE A COMPOST ROOM
COMPOST BUT YOU MENTIONED THAT
FOR RESIDENTS AND THAT'S GREAT.
THERE WILL BE A COMPOST ROOM
UM OOCYTES SUGGESTED THAT YOU
FOR RESIDENTS AND THAT'S GREAT.
PASS SOLAR WITH BATTERIES.
UM OOCYTES SUGGESTED THAT YOU
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
PASS SOLAR WITH BATTERIES.
ADVANTAGEOUS TO YOU SO I THROW
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
THAT BACK OUT.
ADVANTAGEOUS TO YOU SO I THROW
YOU DON'T NEED TO YOU CAN COME
THAT BACK OUT.
BACK AND ANSWER EVERYTHING
YOU DON'T NEED TO YOU CAN COME
LATER THAT EVERYONE ASKS YOU.
BACK AND ANSWER EVERYTHING
I WANTED TO ASK STAFF TO PURSUE
LATER THAT EVERYONE ASKS YOU.
UM TWO REALLY GOOD IDEAS FROM
I WANTED TO ASK STAFF TO PURSUE
THE PUBLIC COMMENTS AND ONE WAS
UM TWO REALLY GOOD IDEAS FROM
THE IDEA OF BIRD SAFE GLASS AND
THE PUBLIC COMMENTS AND ONE WAS
I'M ASKING STAFF TO PURSUE
THE IDEA OF BIRD SAFE GLASS AND
THIS.
I'M ASKING STAFF TO PURSUE
I'M NOT TRYING TO OPEN A
THIS.
CONVERSATION.
I'M NOT TRYING TO OPEN A
UM, AND THEN I THOUGHT THAT
CONVERSATION.
BALAM ANSWER IS A SUGGESTION
UM, AND THEN I THOUGHT THAT
ABOUT A PUBLIC PATHWAY ON THE
BALAM ANSWER IS A SUGGESTION
SOUTH SIDE OF FORSAYTH PARK TO
ABOUT A PUBLIC PATHWAY ON THE
IMPROVE CONNECTIVITY.
SOUTH SIDE OF FORSAYTH PARK TO
UM, AND THEY CAN PEDESTRIAN
IMPROVE CONNECTIVITY.
TRANSIT WAS SOMETHING WORTH
UM, AND THEY CAN PEDESTRIAN
EXPLORING AND I DON'T YOU KNOW,
TRANSIT WAS SOMETHING WORTH
IF YOU AT THE END WANT TO SPEAK
EXPLORING AND I DON'T YOU KNOW,
TO BUT I'M ASKING STAFF TO YOU
IF YOU AT THE END WANT TO SPEAK
KNOW, THAT'S OK.
TO BUT I'M ASKING STAFF TO YOU
I HAVE NOTED THOSE TO FOLLOW UP
KNOW, THAT'S OK.
REQUESTS.
I HAVE NOTED THOSE TO FOLLOW UP
OK, COMMISSIONER WYCHWOOD SO
REQUESTS.
THANKS FOR BRINGING THIS
OK, COMMISSIONER WYCHWOOD SO
PROJECT TO US.
THANKS FOR BRINGING THIS
THANKS FOR LISTENING TO US IN
PROJECT TO US.
PRE PUDI THANKS FOR UPLOADING
THANKS FOR LISTENING TO US IN
THE DELIVERIES INTO YOUR AUTO
PRE PUDI THANKS FOR UPLOADING
COURT THOUGH I WOULD TRY TO
THE DELIVERIES INTO YOUR AUTO
THINK OF A BETTER NAME FOR THAT
COURT THOUGH I WOULD TRY TO
ONE THING THAT I PERSISTENTLY
THINK OF A BETTER NAME FOR THAT
SEE AS A BIKER IN THE CITY IS
ONE THING THAT I PERSISTENTLY
IN SPITE OF THERE BEING
SEE AS A BIKER IN THE CITY IS
DRIVEWAY'S IS IN DEVELOPMENT
IN SPITE OF THERE BEING
DELIVERY VEHICLES STILL TRY TO
DRIVEWAY'S IS IN DEVELOPMENT
WEDGE THEMSELVES INTO THE PARK.
DELIVERY VEHICLES STILL TRY TO
THE BIKE FACILITIES I DON'T
WEDGE THEMSELVES INTO THE PARK.
KNOW IF THERE IS A WAY TO DNS
THE BIKE FACILITIES I DON'T
THE INCENTIVIZE THAT WITH POLLS
KNOW IF THERE IS A WAY TO DNS
THAT ARE CLOSEST TO THE
THE INCENTIVIZE THAT WITH POLLS
ENTRANCE BECAUSE I SEE THEM
THAT ARE CLOSEST TO THE
DOING THEY DID IT TODAY.
ENTRANCE BECAUSE I SEE THEM
WELL, YESTERDAY UNIVERSITY
DOING THEY DID IT TODAY.
TOWER THERE'S A DRIVEWAY WHERE
WELL, YESTERDAY UNIVERSITY
THEY CAN GO IN TO DO THEIR
TOWER THERE'S A DRIVEWAY WHERE
DELIVERY BUT THEY SET A QUARTER
THEY CAN GO IN TO DO THEIR
WAY INTO THE BIKE LANE SO YOU
DELIVERY BUT THEY SET A QUARTER
STILL HAVE TO MOVE AROUND THEM
WAY INTO THE BIKE LANE SO YOU
AND IF THERE'S TWO WAY BIKE
STILL HAVE TO MOVE AROUND THEM
TRAFFIC THAT CREATES A PROBLEM
AND IF THERE'S TWO WAY BIKE
I WONDER I'VE SEEN I THINK WE
TRAFFIC THAT CREATES A PROBLEM
TALKED ABOUT THIS AT THREE
I WONDER I'VE SEEN I THINK WE
THIRTY WILLIAMS DEVELOPMENT
TALKED ABOUT THIS AT THREE
WHERE THEY WERE GOING TO PUT
THIRTY WILLIAMS DEVELOPMENT
POLES RIGHT BEFORE THE CUTOUTS
WHERE THEY WERE GOING TO PUT
SO THAT THE DELIVERY TRUCKS
POLES RIGHT BEFORE THE CUTOUTS
COULDN'T JUST WATCH THEMSELVES
SO THAT THE DELIVERY TRUCKS
IN IN SUCH A WAY BECAUSE THEY
COULDN'T JUST WATCH THEMSELVES
DON'T WANT TO GO INTO YOUR AUTO
IN IN SUCH A WAY BECAUSE THEY
COURT TO DO THEIR DELIVERY
DON'T WANT TO GO INTO YOUR AUTO
BECAUSE THEN THEY HAVE TO TURN
COURT TO DO THEIR DELIVERY
AROUND OR BACK OUT OR SOMETHING
BECAUSE THEN THEY HAVE TO TURN
LIKE THAT.
AROUND OR BACK OUT OR SOMETHING
SO THEY STILL WANT TO STAY
LIKE THAT.
PARALLEL TO THE BUILDING SO
SO THEY STILL WANT TO STAY
THEY CAN JUMP OUT, DO THE
PARALLEL TO THE BUILDING SO
DELIVERY AND JUMP BACK IN.
THEY CAN JUMP OUT, DO THE
BUT THAT CREATES A HAZARD FOR
DELIVERY AND JUMP BACK IN.
BIKERS.
BUT THAT CREATES A HAZARD FOR
SO THERE'S ANY WAY FOR US TO
BIKERS.
LOOK AT THAT JUST AT THE CUT
SO THERE'S ANY WAY FOR US TO
OUTS I THINK IF WE DID THAT
LOOK AT THAT JUST AT THE CUT
LIKE POLES THAT EACH SIDE
OUTS I THINK IF WE DID THAT
OF THE CUT OUT I THINK THAT
LIKE POLES THAT EACH SIDE
WOULD DEEMPHASIZE THAT AND
OF THE CUT OUT I THINK THAT
WOULD BE SAFER FOR BIKERS.
WOULD DEEMPHASIZE THAT AND
I ALSO WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
WOULD BE SAFER FOR BIKERS.
HEARING ME TALK RECENTLY ABOUT
I ALSO WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
BIKES AND NOTING IT ON YOUR
HEARING ME TALK RECENTLY ABOUT
SITE PLAN THAT YOU PLAN TO DO
BIKES AND NOTING IT ON YOUR
THAT.
SITE PLAN THAT YOU PLAN TO DO
I COUNT TWELVE CLASS C BIKE
THAT.
SPACES THAT ARE AVAILABLE TO
I COUNT TWELVE CLASS C BIKE
THE PUBLIC.
SPACES THAT ARE AVAILABLE TO
IS THAT CORRECT ON YOUR PLAN?
THE PUBLIC.
OK AND THEN EVERYTHING ELSE IS
IS THAT CORRECT ON YOUR PLAN?
CLASS A INSIDE THE BUILDING
OK AND THEN EVERYTHING ELSE IS
THERE ISN'T ANY TRANSPORTING
CLASS A INSIDE THE BUILDING
OF BIKES UP THE LEVEL OR DOWN
THERE ISN'T ANY TRANSPORTING
THE LEVEL.
OF BIKES UP THE LEVEL OR DOWN
IT'S ALL ON GROUND FLOOR.
THE LEVEL.
THAT IS CORRECT AND THEN YOU
IT'S ALL ON GROUND FLOOR.
NOTE IT BUT DIDN'T NOTE IN YOUR
THAT IS CORRECT AND THEN YOU
BENEFITS THAT YOU WERE ALSO
NOTE IT BUT DIDN'T NOTE IN YOUR
PLANNING TO DO IT BY CHARGING
BENEFITS THAT YOU WERE ALSO
AS WELL.
PLANNING TO DO IT BY CHARGING
I WOULD ASK THAT YOU PUT THAT
AS WELL.
ON YOUR SHEET TO SAY THAT
I WOULD ASK THAT YOU PUT THAT
YOU'RE CREATING FACILITY FOR
ON YOUR SHEET TO SAY THAT
BIKES AND THAT YOU'RE CREATING
YOU'RE CREATING FACILITY FOR
FACILITY FOR THEM TO BE CHARGED
BIKES AND THAT YOU'RE CREATING
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THAT IS
FACILITY FOR THEM TO BE CHARGED
ALSO HELPFUL AND THEN WHAT WAS
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THAT IS
MY OTHER QUESTION?
ALSO HELPFUL AND THEN WHAT WAS
I LOST MY OTHER QUESTION WHEN
MY OTHER QUESTION?
IT COMES BACK TO ME I WILL ASK
I LOST MY OTHER QUESTION WHEN
THANK YOU.
IT COMES BACK TO ME I WILL ASK
AND JUST A QUICK
REMINDER
PLEASE SPEAK INTO THE MIKE
BECAUSE OTHERWISE IT WON'T BE
PICKED UP WHEN YOU ARE
RESPONDING.
SO EVERYBODY THAT'S LISTENING
OUTSIDE CAN HEAR SO APPRECIATE
THAT AND THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONER IT'S
FOR STAFF IT'S JUST A TECHNICAL
QUESTION SO THAT I CAN
UNDERSTAND SOMETHING THAT I
READ THAT I DID NOT UNDERSTAND
AT ONE PLACE IN ONE REPORT IT
FELT LIKE I WAS READING THAT
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING WASN'T
REQUIRED BECAUSE OF THE
UNDERLYING ZONING AND THEN IN
ANOTHER PLACE IT WAS IT WAS
REQUIRED.
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO
UNDERSTAND THE THE DELTA FROM C
A ONE HOUR TO THE D WITH THE
HOW WE WOULD TREAT THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING QUOTIENT
BECAUSE I WAS JUST CONFUSED AND
WHAT I READ IN ONE PLACE WAS
LIKE WE DIDN'T HAVE TO DO THIS
AND I WAS LIKE BUT YOU DID AND
THEN ARE NOW SAYING YOU'RE ONLY
DID A ONE PERCENT MORE SO JUST
CLARITY FOR ME.
YEAH WELL YES IT IS ALL ABOUT
ONE PERCENT IN STANDARD NO.
FIVE IT THERE'S A STANDARD NO.
FIVE TALKS ABOUT WHEN
RESIDENTIAL USERS ARE PROPOSING
IT EXCEEDS THE UNDERLYING
DENSITY THEN FIFTEEN PERCENT
OF THE FLOOR AREA MUST BE
DEDICATED TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DWELLING UNITS AND SO PROJECTS
THAT PROPOSED 15 PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WE ARE NOT
GOING TO SAY NO THANK YOU TO
HOWEVER THAT IS THE STANDARD
OF APPROVAL BUT THAT STANDARD
IS FIFTEEN PERCENT.
THIS PROJECT IS PROPOSING
SIXTEEN PERCENT AND THEY DON'T
HAVE TO.
SO WE WOULD LIKE TO GIVE CREDIT
WHERE CREDIT IS DUE AND WHEN
YOU'RE A PROJECT OF THIS SIZE
THAT ONE PERCENT IS SIGNIFICANT
AND THEY ARE REQUESTING A
PAYMENT IN LIEU.
SO THAT IS A LOT OF EXTRA
DOLLARS AND WE WOULD LIKE TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY ARE
PROPOSING AND THEN WE HAVE
CODIFIED THAT SIXTEEN PERCENT
IS REQUIRED IN THIS DISTRICT.
SO BY THAT JUST IF YOU COULD
BEAR WITH ME FOR A SECOND SO IT
IT'S NOT THE CASE THAT THEY ARE
NOT REQUIRED TO THE FIFTY
PERCENT THAT IS THAT WAS
REQUIRED FROM KOREA ONE OR TWO
HERE.
YES.
THE STANDARD OF APPROVAL IS
FIFTEEN PERCENT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING BECAUSE THIS IS MORE
THAN THREE HUNDRED PERCENT
BECAUSE THEY ARE BUT IT'S NOT
BASED ON LIKE WHEN WE WERE
LOOKING AT THE PAD FOR
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH AND IT WAS
OUR FORCE-FEED THE PUDI AND IT
WAS A TEN TIMES THE DENSITY
BECAUSE OF THE UNITS PER ACRE
WE DON'T HAVE A UNITS PER ACRE
DENSITY HERE.
WE'RE USING F.A.A. ARE INSTEAD
WELL THAT PROJECT TOO WE HAD
THAT PROJECT TOO.
THEY THEY PROJECT IT WAS ALSO
REQUIRED TO HAVE FIFTEEN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THEY
WERE TRYING THEY WERE SAYING
THAT THAT WAS A PURPORTED
BENEFIT AND STAFF WAS SAYING
THAT AS A STANDARD OF APPROVAL
AND HERE THEY REMAINED AT
FIFTEEN PERCENT AT THE TABLE WE
MOVED AT THE TABLE.
IT MOVED TO SEVENTEEN PERCENT
CORRECT.
BUT IT IS AN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT
PROJECT HERE.
THE MINIMUM STANDARD FIFTEEN
PERCENT AND LIKE I SAID WE
WOULD NOT WE WOULD SAY THANK
YOU VERY MUCH BUT THAT IS NOT A
BENEFIT OF THE OF THIS PADDYS
TO JUST MEETING THE FIFTEEN
PERCENT BUT THEY ARE PROPOSING
SIXTEEN PERCENT AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE CANNOT
REQUIRE.
I DON'T KNOW IF I'M JUST IN MY
READING IT WAS IT WAS HARD TO
TRACK ALL THAT BECAUSE AT ONE
POINT IT FELT LIKE IT WASN'T
REQUIRED AND THEN IT WAS LIKE
OH AND WE'RE JUST DOING THIS
AND THEN IT WAS NO WE'RE JUST
DOING ONE PERCENT SO LIKE THAT
I THINK I UNDERSTAND WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING IS BECAUSE THEY
ARE DOING ONE PERCENT MORE THAN
IS REQUIRED YOU ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT AS A PUBLIC BENEFIT IN THE
STAFF REPORT?
YEAH.
AS A PUBLIC BENEFIT THAT WE
COULD NOT GET OTHERWISE.
SO AGAIN FOR THE DEVELOPERS ON
THAT SHEET THAT YOU CREATED OF
ALL THE THE BENEFITS THE
FIFTEEN PERCENT IS JUST A GIVEN
BECAUSE OF THE DENSITY.
SO IT'S REALLY JUST THE ONE
PERCENT AND I THINK THAT WOULD
BE A LITTLE CLEARER AND IT
WOULD BE A LITTLE MORE HONEST
IN THE REPORTING ESPECIALLY
SINCE THIS HAS TO GO TO CITY
COUNCIL AND WILL BE SUBJECT TO
ANOTHER PUBLIC HEARING.
AND THEN I ALSO WANTED TO
SUPPORT BELLA WITH MY
SUGGESTION FOR THE SIDEWALK TO
COME ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
BUILDING THROUGH FORSIGHT PARK
TO CONNECT PACARD IN STATE.
SO IF THE DEVELOPER IS
AGREEABLE TO THAT AND THAT CAN
GO INTO THE TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS PARK
IMPROVEMENT, I'D LOVE TO SEE
THAT THERE.
THANK YOU.
AND THE COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER, WHETHER IT BE I
JUST HAVE KIND OF A SET
OF THINGS I THINK I'LL FOCUS
PRIMARILY ON UH KIND BIKE
LANES, PEDESTRIAN ACCESS UM CAN
IS THERE CAN SOMEONE SHOW ME
LIKE WHERE ENTRA INGRESS EGRESS
TO THIS BUILDING WILL BE FOR
PEDESTRIANS BICYCLISTS LIKE
BIKE WHERE ARE THE STAIRWELLS
WHERE ARE THE WHERE'S THE I
MEAN I SAW THE LOBBY IS KIND
OF IN THE MIDDLE
IN ADDITION TO
THEIR RESPONSE IN THE PACKET
THERE IS AN ATTACHMENT CALLED
ARCHITECTURAL PLAN I BELIEVE
AND ON PAGE FOUR OF TWENTY TWO
THERE ARE SOME TRIANGLES AT
EACH OF THE ENTRANCE.
THE ENTRANCES ARE DENOTED BY
TRIANGLES ON SHEET FOUR
OF TWENTY TWO.
OK SO THE IMAGE YOU'RE LOOKING
AT NOW YOU'LL SEE BLACK
TRIANGLES EVERYWHERE THERE'S AN
ENTRANCE AND SO THE MAIN
ENTRANCES ARE BOTH FROM STATE
AND FROM PACARD STREET.
YOU SEE THESE TRIANGLES.
YEAH AND SO YOU WOULD ENTER
INTO KIND OF AN INTERIOR
CIRCULATION ZONE WHERE THERE
WOULD BE DOORS ACTUALLY OUT TO
BOTH STREETS.
THERE'S ALSO AN EXIT HERE OUT
TO THAT COURT AND THEN YOU'LL
SEE OTHER KIND OF EXITS AND
ENTRIES INTO THE BACK ROOMS
NOTATED ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE
PLAN BY A BLACK TRIANGLE.
OK, SO IF I'M LIVING IN THIS
BUILDING AND I CALL TO GET
PIZZA DELIVERED PIZZA MAYBE AS
A BAD IDEA I GOT TO GET A
DELIVERY PIZZA.
WE'LL JUST WALK DOWN AROUND THE
CORNER WHERE WHERE WOULD YOU
EXPECT THAT DELIVERY DRIVER I'M
GETTING GROCERIES.
LET'S GO WITH THAT.
WHERE WOULD THAT DELIVERY
DRIVER WHERE WOULD I TELL THAT
DELIVERY DRIVER TO STOP SO YOU
WOULD WANT TO TELL THEM TO STOP
ALONG PACARD IN THE CUTOUT
WHICH IS SHOWN AT THE TOP
OF THE SCREEN HERE.
YEAH.
SO THERE IS A CURB CUT OUT
THERE SPECIFICALLY FOR STANDING
VEHICLES TO GET THEM OUT OF THE
STREET AND OUR PACARD STREET
ENTRANCE IS RIGHT THERE AND AND
SO THAT'S A THAT'S A NICE
ENTRANCE.
THAT'S NOT JUST LIKE THE BOTTOM
OF A STAIRWELL IS MAIN.
THAT IS WHERE THAT IS WHERE THE
BUILDING ADDRESS IS.
THAT'S OK.
COMPACTER OK.
DO YOU HAVE AN IMAGE OF THAT
COMING RIGHT UP.
IT'S RIGHT HERE OK BECAUSE
CERTAINLY AS I WALK DOWN MAIN
STREET AND I WALK BY SIX
FIFTEEN S MAIN THE YARD IT'S A
VERY SIMILAR POSITION WHERE
THERE IS A PRIVATE COMPANY
THAT'S NOT PART OF THE BUILDING
THAT HAS A PARKING LOT AT THE
END OF THE STREET AND THERE'S A
LOT OF CONFLICT WITH THAT AND
THERE'S ALWAYS PEOPLE IN THE
BIKE LANES PARKING FOR
DELIVERIES AND FOR SO SO I'M
REALLY HAPPY THAT THERE IS A
SPOT THAT IS DESIGNATED FOR
THIS AND DOES NOT INTERFERE
WITH THE BIKE LANE DOES NOT
INTERFERE WITH THE SIDEWALK.
RIGHT.
I MEAN I'M NOT OK WE DID THE
YARD AND I KNOW THAT DELIVERY
VEHICLES PARK IN THE BIKE LANE.
IT'S THE MOST CONVENIENT PLACE
FOR THEM TO PARK.
YEAH, IS A DEDICATED SPACE FOR
DROP OFF AND IT IS NEAR THE
BECAUSE ONE OF THE THINGS WITH
THAT ONE HAS A LOT OF SPACE BUT
IT'S NOT NEAR THE FRONT
ENTRANCE SO PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
COME IN AND OUT AND FEEL SAFE
AND COMFORTABLE AND SO THIS HAS
A DESIGNATED AREA AND IS THERE
GOING TO BE SOME SORT
OF BUZZING FOR DELIVERY OR SO
THAT PACKAGES AREN'T JUST LEFT
OUT ON THE STREET, IS THERE?
YEAH, SO WE WE WOULD HAVE ON
SITE MANAGEMENT DURING DELIVERY
HOURS THAT WOULD HANDLE THAT.
WE HAVE A SYSTEM CALLED
BUTTERFLY IMEX WHICH WE COULD
ARRANGE FOR ENTRY INTO THE
BUILDING THROUGH THAT SYSTEM.
OK BECAUSE THAT'S JUST BOTH
MAIN ENTRANCES PARTICULARLY THE
ONE YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT HAS
SHOWN THERE YOU SEE THAT ACTUAL
CURB CUT AS ABOUT TWENTY FEET
AWAY FROM THE ACTUAL ENTRANCE.
OK, PERFECT.
JUST BECAUSE THIS IS A REALLY
BIG ISSUE WITH A LOT
OF BUILDINGS IN TOWN AND IN
THIS SPOT WHICH IS
EXTRAORDINARILY HEAVY TRAFFIC
IT COULD REALLY BE A BIG
PROBLEM.
SO I'M GLAD THAT THAT HAS BEEN
DISCUSSED AND THOUGHT ABOUT
LET'S SEE JUST ANOTHER I LIKE
THE MIXTURE OF THE APARTMENT
SIZES.
I THINK THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
GOOD THING FOR THIS ONE.
WE DON'T ALWAYS SEE THAT BIRD
GLASS.
IT SOUNDS LIKE A SILLY THING
BUT IT'S ACTUALLY A BIG DEAL.
SO ANOTHER ANOTHER POINT FOR
THE BIRDS GLASS AND THEN THE
OTHER QUESTION SO I KNOW YOU'RE
GOING TO WORK ON THAT.
ARE YOU ADDING A CROSSWALK AT
HOOVER OR MOVING THE CROSSWALK
FROM THE SOUTH SIDE TO THE
NORTH SIDE OF HOOVER AND ST.
ORIENTATION?
THE LOCATION OF THE CROSSWALK
IS ESSENTIALLY THE SAME.
WE'RE MOVING SOME RAMPS AROUND
A LITTLE BIT TO ACCOMMODATE
SOME POLES BUT WE'RE PUTTING A
WE'RE UPGRADING THE SIGNAL
THERE BECAUSE ACTUALLY THE EXIT
FROM THE COURTYARD WILL BE A
SIGNALIZED EXIT.
IT'LL BE IT'S ACTUALLY A FOUR
WAY STOP STOP LIGHT AS OPPOSED
TO A THREE WAY RIGHT NOW.
SO THERE'S JUST GENERALIZED
IMPROVEMENTS BECAUSE THERE'S
NOT A CROSSWALK ON THE NORTH
SIDE OF THAT INTERSECTION.
THERE'S ONLY A CROSSWALK ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF THAT INTERSECTION
AND I THOUGHT IT WAS JUST THE
OPPOSITE BUT IT USES ONE I USED
TO BE IT WAS NOW IT WAS
SWITCHED.
OK, BECAUSE THE NORTH SIDE
DIDN'T WORK.
THE SOUTH SIDE HAD AND THERE'S
THERE'S ONE THAT I WON'T DEBATE
WHICH SIDE SIDE.
YEAH, OK.
AND THEN A POINT FOR THE CITY
MAYBE THAT IS PROBABLY NOT YOUR
RESPONSIBILITY BUT THE THAT
WHOLE INTERSECTION NOT THE THE
STATE PACARD AABA INTERSECTION
IS A REALLY INTENSE
INTERSECTION AND WHEN WE'RE
ADDING A LOT OF PEOPLE RIGHT ON
THAT CORNER AND THERE'S A LOT
OF BIKES AND THERE'S A LOT
OF IT'S IT'S A HARD ONE TO KIND
OF GET ACROSS.
IT'S KIND OF A SCRAMBLE.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF WE CAN DO
SOMETHING TO MAKE THAT MAYBE IT
JUST APPEARS UNSAFE AS A
PEDESTRIAN AND MAYBE IT'S FINE
.
BUT THAT IS SOMETHING THAT I'D
LIKE IF YOU KNOW THE CHANCE
SOMEBODY COULD TAKE A LOOK AND
SEE IF THERE'S SOMETHING
BECAUSE IF WE'RE ADDING A LOT
OF PEOPLE RIGHT AT THAT CORNER
AND A LOT MORE LIKE I'M NOT AT
ALL CONCERNED ABOUT THE VEHICLE
THE CAR USE FROM THAT BUILDING,
I DON'T THINK THAT'S GOING TO
BE AN ISSUE CAR USED TO THAT
BUILDING AND AWAY FROM THAT
BUILDING AND BIKES AND PEOPLE
IT'S JUST GOING TO ADD A LOT
OF INTENSITY TO THAT WHOLE KIND
OF WILD INTERSECTION THERE.
AND SO I JUST IF THERE'S ANY
WAY THAT WE CAN KIND OF HAVE
SOMEBODY TAKING A LOOK AT THAT
SEPARATE REALLY FROM YOUR
RESPONSIBILITY BUT JUST IN
GENERAL TO MAKE SURE EVERYBODY
CAN SAFELY GET TO CAMPUS AND
DOWNTOWN AND WITH THIS UP
UPGRADE.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT, I THINK
IT'S A GREAT BUILDING.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF GOOD
THINGS ABOUT IT.
IT'S DEFINITELY A CHANGE.
IT'S GOING TO BE A BIG CHANGE
AND THAT'S WHAT WE NEED.
SO THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER APRON'S I JUST
WANT TO ASK A CLARIFICATION
QUESTION ABOUT THE BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION AND WE RECEIVED
A COMMUNICATION FROM COMMUNITY
MEMBER WHO WAS CONCERNED ABOUT
THE RETAIL SLASH RESTAURANT
SPACE HAVING A GAS HOOKUP AND I
WONDERED WHETHER YOUR KIND
OF CONDITIONAL COMMITMENT TO
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION BASED
ON THE UPGRADES TO D.C. WOULD
INCLUDE THE RETAIL SPACE AS
WELL.
I WOULD PREFER TO HAVE THE
FLEXIBILITY TO OFFER A GAS
CONNECTION TO A POTENTIAL
TENANT IN THAT SPACE IF IT
COMES DOWN TO CROOKEDLY THAT
IT'S A SMALL ENOUGH PIECE
OF THE DEVELOPMENT THAT I COULD
LIVE WITH THAT IT WOULD BE
BETTER THOUGH TO OFFER MORE
OPTIONS FOR POTENTIAL TENANTS.
SO I WOULD PREFER TO KEEP THAT
OPTION ON THE TABLE FOR A GAS
CONNECTION FOR A RETAILER IN
THAT 20 SQUARE FOOT RETAIL
SPACE.
SO SO THAT IN YOUR MIND THE
IDEAL SCENARIO IS THAT UPGRADES
HAPPEN IN TIME AND THE BUILDING
IS ALL ELECTRIC EXCEPT FOR THAT
RETAIL SPACE.
THAT'S CORRECT.
AND BACKUP GENERATOR.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. ADAMS.
DOES THAT WORK WITH THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS THAT
ARE ON THE TABLE WHICH AS I'M
READING THEM ONLY CONTEMPLATE A
NATURAL GAS CONNECTION FOR
AUXILIARY HOT WATER GENERATION
THAT'S WHAT WE WOULD ASK FOR
FOR OUR BASE CASE WE WOULD HAVE
TO ADD LANGUAGE IN THERE ABOUT
ACTUALLY MAKING THAT PAYMENT TO
MAKE SURE THAT THAT PROCESS
GETS SET IN MOTION.
THAT WAS A LATE EMAIL AT AFTER
THE STAFF REPORT WAS COMPILED.
SO BUT IN A BASE CASE WE WOULD
WANT THE ABILITY TO USE A
SUPPLEMENTAL BOILER TO PROVIDE
AUXILIARY HOT WATER GENERATION
JUST IN CASE WE CANNOT STICK TO
THEIR SCHEDULE BECAUSE THE
SCENARIO IN WHICH WE DELIVER A
BUILDING THIS SIZE TO IN A WAY
WHERE IT CAN'T BE SERVED BY
ELECTRICITY IS VERY, VERY BAD.
SO WE NEED TO HAVE THAT
APPROVED BEEN ON THE TABLE FOR
GO AHEAD PLEASE.
THE WHITE SO UNDERSTOOD IN THE
LAST EXCHANGE THOUGH THAT YOU
INTENDED TO POTENTIALLY OFFER A
GAS CONNECTION TO THE
RESTAURANT POTENTIAL RESTAURANT
TENANTS IN THOSE SPACES.
AM I DID I MISS HERE RIGHT.
THAT IS GOING TO SATISFY WHAT I
WAS ASKING IS IS THAT IS THAT
INTENTION CONSISTENT WITH THE
REGULATIONS THAT WE HAVE ON THE
TABLE IN FRONT OF US TONIGHT OR
IS THAT IS THAT SOMETHING THAT
NEEDS TO BE AMENDED AS PART
OF THE REGULAR?
I WOULD DEFER TO YOU.
I THOUGHT MY UNDERSTANDING WAS
THAT AUXILLARY GAS CONNECTION
FOR POOR RETAIL WAS IN THERE
BUT MAYBE IT SAYS AUXILIARY HOT
WATER GENERATION.
YOU ARE CORRECT THAT THE DRAFT
LANGUAGE WOULD NOT COVER THAT
OPTION FOR THE RESTAURANT AND I
WOULD ENCOURAGE THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO DISCUSS
WHETHER THAT WOULD BE
ACCEPTABLE REVISION TO THE TO
THE DRAFT.
BY THE WAY, I JUST HEARD
SOMETHING THAT SEEMED
INCONSISTENT WHAT I WAS SEEING
ON THE PAGE AND IF THAT'S GOING
TO THAT THAT'S GOING TO LEAVE
THOSE SPACES DARK THEN THAT'S A
PROBLEM.
RIGHT.
SO I JUST WANTED TO FLAG IT.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS,
COMMISSIONER MILLS, I WANT TO
FOLLOW UP A LITTLE BIT ON IN
PART BECAUSE IT SEEMS LIKE
MAYBE STAFF WANTED TO SAY A
LITTLE BIT MORE AND I WAS
CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT STAFF MAYBE
WANTED TO ADD ON THIS JUST THAT
IN ADDITION TO THE OPTION FOR
RESTAURANT, IT DOESN'T
CURRENTLY PROVIDE FOR GAS FOR
BACKUP POWER THE LENGTH THE
LANGUAGE.
RIGHT.
AND THAT'S THAT WAS THE.
SO THAT WAS IN THE STAFF REPORT
TOO THAT THAT WAS THE INTENTION
BEHIND THIS.
SO I WAS CURIOUS ABOUT THAT
WITHIN THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS
FEEL LIKE NINETY NINE POINT
NINE PERCENT ACCURATE IS GOOD
ENOUGH.
I CAN TAKE OWNERSHIP FOR THAT.
I THINK THAT IN OUR IN JUST THE
VERY LAST MINUTE THIS IS A
DRAFT MAYBE OUR SIGNALS ARE
COMMUNICATION CROSSED PATHS WE
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO TO
REVISE NOW WE WOULD JUST SO YOU
KNOW THE COURSE OF ACTION ALSO
PROVIDE AN APPLICANT ONE LAST
OPPORTUNITY TO REVIEW AND
REVISE BOTH THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT DOCUMENT AND THE
SUPPLY REGULATIONS IF IT
DIFFERS FROM THIS VERSION
TONIGHT GOING TO CITY COUNCIL
AND YOU ARE NOT AWARE WE HAVE
NOT PREVIOUSLY DISCUSSED IT WE
WOULD MAKE IT ABUNDANTLY CLEAR
TO CITY COUNCIL THAT THIS IS A
CHANGE AND LIKE I SAID, I THINK
THAT WE MAY MR. SAVOY AND I MAY
ACROSS PARTS IN OUR
COMMUNICATION AND OUR REVIEWS
OF THESE OF THESE DOCUMENTS.
THIS DRAFT WAS FINALIZED LAST
WEDNESDAY.
I BELIEVE IF I COULD JUMP IN TO
AND SHARE MY PERSPECTIVE IN A
CONVERSATION THAT WE HAD AS
WELL, I WAS REALLY EXCITED
BECAUSE I SAW AN EMAIL THAT AT
THE TIME I THINK THE APPROACH
WAS AS THE PETITIONER INDICATED
,THIS BUILDING IS GOING TO BE
DESIGNED WITH A HEAT SOURCE IN
SUCH A WAY THAT THE SOURCE
OF THAT HEAT SOURCE I THINK YOU
SAID HEAT PUMP I THAT CAN FUEL
EITHER WITH NATURAL GAS OR
ELECTRICITY THAT TECHNOLOGY
EXISTS THAT THAT ADAPTABILITY
IS THERE PLANNING THAT FOR THAT
SIGN I GOT REALLY EXCITED WHEN
WE GOT AN EMAIL SAYING HEY, WE
MIGHT HAVE A SOLUTION TO
ACTUALLY DO THIS WITH A FULLY
ELECTRIC CARS THAT I KNOW
THAT'S AN INTERESTING THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE
CITY COUNCIL BASED ON OUR
CONVERSATION I MAINTAIN THAT
EXCITEMENT BUT I ALSO CAUTIONED
THAT THERE'S A LOT OF IFS IN
THAT FOR US TO PUT A
REQUIREMENT IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION THAT IT HAS TO BE
ELECTRIC AT THIS POINT FOR THAT
SOURCE IS IN THAT CASE HIM
PUTTING THIS PROJECT'S DELIVERY
AND REALIZATION ON DECISIONS BY
DTG THAT WILL BE OUT OF THEIR
CONTROL.
AND SO MY ADVICE WAS TO RETAIN
THIS LANGUAGE AS IT IS BE
UPFRONT WITH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I REALLY APPRECIATED THEM BEING
REALLY TRANSPARENT ABOUT SOME
OF THE COST FACTORS AND THE
CHALLENGES WITH THAT.
BUT I JUST WANT TO ALSO ADD
THAT CONTEXT.
THAT IS WHY I DON'T RECOMMEND
AT THIS POINT THAT THIS SAY IT
ONLY THE ONLY RESTRICTION WOULD
BE ALLOWANCE WOULD BE NATURAL
GAS FOR THE RETAIL SPACES AS
WELL AS EMERGENCY POWER BACKUP
.
THAT'S UP TO YOU IF THAT IS A
CRITICAL BENEFIT THAT YOU WANT
TO SEE THAT THEN YOU HAVE
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR
THAT.
BUT TO MEMORIALIZE THAT
REQUIREMENT BUILDING WIDE FOR
ELECTRIFICATION, I JUST WANT TO
BE ANYTHING MORE THAN LET YOU
HEAR FROM THE PETITIONER THAT
THAT IS PUTTING DECISIONS THAT
THEY ARE WILLING TO FACILITATE
AND INVEST IN.
BUT IT IS THERE AS TIME
ASSOCIATIONS AND REALIZATION
OF THOSE THAT WILL BE
DRASTICALLY OUT OF THEIR
CONTROL.
I I IS THAT OK OK I WAS LIKE I
GET THAT AND I'M PROBABLY GOING
TO SAY SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE IS
GOING TO SHOCK PEOPLE.
FIRST OF ALL THE PRESENTATION
INCLUDED THIS ONE POINT SIX
MILLION WASN'T RIGHT IT WASN'T
IN ANY OF THE STUFF THAT WE SAW
AND SO THAT ACTUALLY GIVES ME A
WHOLE LOT MORE COMFORT BEHIND
THE LANGUAGE THAT'S IN HERE
ABOUT BECAUSE IT'S NOT
ACHIEVABLE BECAUSE WE HEAR OVER
AND OVER AGAIN IT'S NOT
ACHIEVABLE.
THIS SEEMS TO ME TO BE LIKE A
GOOD FAITH EFFORT.
THE REALITY IS
AGAIN BECAUSE
IT'S NOT AN EASY THING THAT WE
HAVE WE CAN'T MAKE WE'RE TAKING
YOUR WORD ON IT AND COMING IN
HERE I WAS LIKE WE KNOW BUT
WITH THE MULTIPLE TIMES OH
SORRY.
THAT'S CRAZY.
WE'VE BEEN TOLD MULTIPLE TIMES
THAT THE GRID CAN'T HANDLE ALL
ELECTRIC GENERALLY FOR MANY
BUILDINGS.
RIGHT.
AND SO IS THIS REALLY GOING TO
HAPPEN AND IT SEEMS LIKE THERE
MAY WELL BE A PATH TOWARDS
THAT.
SO I LEAVE IT UP TO OUR STAFF
HONESTLY IN THE NEXT ITERATION
TO KNOW WHAT OUR GOALS ARE HERE
AND TO WRITE IT AND THEN AGAIN
LIKE THIS IS NOT YOUR FIRST
BUILDING HERE.
THIS WILL NOT BE YOU.
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU DON'T WANT
THIS TO BE YOUR LAST BUILDING
HERE.
REMEMBER?
THAT'S CORRECT.
BUT THAT'S THE REALITY WE
REMEMBER I REMEMBER AT LEAST
TRY TO REMEMBER WHAT PEOPLE
TELL US THAN WHAT ACTUALLY
COMES TO BE.
SO I AM COMFORTABLE WITH STAFF
WORKING THAT OUT AND HOWEVER
HOWEVER THAT COMES I DON'T LOVE
IT WHEN PEOPLE TELL US
SOMETHING LIKE WE'RE NOT
HOLDING YOUR FEET TO BECAUSE I
WANT TO IF YOU TELL US THAT
YOU'RE WORKING WITH DEAD AND
MAKING THIS INVESTMENT OF ONE
POINT SIX MILLION DOLLARS IF
YOU DON'T DO THAT THAT'S JUST
PAPAU ANYWAY.
SO OK, SO I'M THINKING
SUSTAINABILITY.
I THINK THAT THAT IS DEFINITELY
MAKING A GOOD FAITH EFFORT AND
SO I'M TRYING TO THINK ABOUT
AGAIN HOW IS THIS DIFFERENT
LIKE WHAT ARE THE COMMUNITY
BENEFITS ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
DIFFERENT I APPRECIATE THE
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE.
I THINK THAT THAT BUILDING THE
WESTERN SIDE ALONG STATE STREET
HAVING THE CUT OUT TO
ACCOMMODATE THE LARGE EXISTING
TREES IS A LIKE I THINK THAT
THAT'S REALLY GOING TO CHANGE
THAT EXPERIENCE AND I THINK
THAT THAT DEFINITELY SOMETHING
THAT THE UNDERLYING ZONING
DOESN'T REQUIRE AND SO I THINK
THAT'S GREAT.
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT YOUR
PLAN IS TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU
DON'T KILL THE TREES IN THE
PROCESS OF DEMOLISHING
EVERYTHING ELSE.
HE'S THAT'S THE ANSWER THAT SO
I ACTUALLY MET WITH BILL
LAWRENCE THE FORMER CITY
FORESTER WHO IS OUR ARBORIST ON
SITE TO DISCUSS THAT PROCESS.
THE TWO HOMES WHICH FLANK THOSE
TWO TREES LEFT AND RIGHT WILL
BE DEMOLISHED AND THEN THE
BASEMENT'S PULLED AWAY FROM THE
TREES AND HE'S DESIGNING A
BACKFILL MIX BECAUSE OF THE
SPECIES THEY ARE IT HAS TO BE
WELL TRAINED.
YOU DON'T WANT A LOT OF WATER
SITTING UP AGAINST THOSE ROOFS
BECAUSE OF THE TREE.
SO IT'S GOING TO BE A MIXTURE
OF SAND AND LOAM AND LIFTS TO
GET PUT BACK INTO THE VOIDS
THAT ARE CREATED BY THE REMOVAL
OF THE FOUNDATION SYSTEM.
AND THEN YOU'LL NOTICE WE HAVE
PROTECTIONS ON TOP LAND AROUND
EACH OF THOSE TREES.
SO ONCE THAT NEW SOIL IS PUT IN
THERE, PROTECTION METHODS WE'RE
PUTTING EVEN OUTSIDE IT'S
REQUIRED BY THE CITY ACLC TO DO
OUR CIRCLES OR ONE IS THE
MINIMUM REQUIREMENT CITY.
THE SECOND ONE IS WHERE WE
INTEND TO MAKE SURE THERE'S A
NO DRIVE ZONE SO THAT ALL THAT
SOIL DOESN'T GET COMPACTED AND
THEN HE'S ALSO COMING UP WITH A
WATERING SCHEDULE TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE TREES GET ENOUGH WATER
FOR THE FIRST TWO OR THREE
YEARS THAT THE ROOTS ARE
GROWING INTO THAT NEW SOIL.
IT'S BEING PLACED IN GREAT
SPECIFICALLY ON THE SHORE.
SO I'M WATCHING TWO TWENTY TO
SEVENTY BE DEVELOPED AND THERE
ARE SOME TREES THAT LINE
THERE'S A GROVE OF THEM THAT
LINE AND I'M WATCHING THE
TRUCKS DECIMATE THE BRANCH
OF THAT TREE AND I'VE WATCHED
THEM TAKE OUT ONE OF OUR TREES
AND OUR EASEMENT.
THEY ARE SO IT CAN YOU JUST
JUST SAY A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT HOW YOU ARE PLANNING TO
PROTECT THAT?
YOU KNOW, WITH THE NO DRIVE I
GUESS THAT WELL SO THEY'LL BE
ON SITE CONSTRUCTION
MANAGEMENT.
THE BARRIERS WILL BE ERECTED
AND AS AS REGARDS THE CANOPY IF
THERE HAS TO BE SOME SELECTIVE
PRUNING OR THE BRANCHES MAY GO
OUTSIDE OF THAT AREA WHERE
THERE MIGHT BE A CRANE RAIN
COMING IN THE BACK AND THE
HARPERSVILLE DIRECT THE
SELECTIVE PRUNING OF THE OF THE
CANOPY THAT ACTUALLY CAN HELP
THE TREES ARRIVE.
SURE.
AND THEN A ALL TO STAFF IF
THOSE TREES ARE HARMED, THEY'LL
HAVE TO REMEDIATE THAT.
YES.
OK, THERE A CENTRAL FEATURE
OF OUR INDUSTRY WE UNDERSTAND
I'M JUST FOLLOWING COMMISSIONER
MILLS LEAD HERE WITH OUR HE'S
GOING TO DO WHAT WE SAY AND
JUST I MEAN, YOU KNOW, IT'S FUN
FOR EVERYBODY ELSE'S BENEFIT
WHO ONLY FOLLOWS THE PROJECT
BUT IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD
THERE'S IT'S NOT JUST THE
NORMAL MITIGATE SHOULDN'T
METRIC BUT YOU HAVE TO PAY IF
YOU TAKE OUT A TREE THAT YOU
SAY YOU'RE GOING TO SAVE
THERE'S A PENALTY IF THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CALLED.
SO IT'S IT'S WE DO TAKE IT
SERIOUSLY AGAIN FOR THE TV
FRIENDS OUT THERE.
SO I SEE IT AGAIN.
I SEE THAT THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT IS UNIQUE TO THIS
PARTICULAR DISTRICT AND I DON'T
KNOW I DON'T SEE THAT IT'S
REALLY IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS
AND I DON'T KNOW HOW PEOPLE
FEEL ABOUT PUTTING AN INVISIBLE
ROMEROS BUT I THINK THAT THAT'S
A REAL BIG BENEFIT.
AND IF THERE'S A YOU DON'T WANT
TO CHANGE THINGS AT TABLE I'M
JUST SAYING I SEE DOESN'T HAVE
IT.
LET'S THINK THE OTHER QUESTION
ABOUT THE BENEFITS THAT ARE
SHOWN AND THIS IS JUST FOR MY
OWN REMEMBER REMINDING ME THE
PARK IMPROVEMENTS IS THAT IS A
RESULT OF THE DEER IS NOT JUST
AS A RESULT OF DEVELOPMENT
BECAUSE WE REQUIRE PAYMENT TO
PARKS WHEN YOU ADD MORE HOUSING
IT MAY BE SEMANTICS BUT IS IT
PERHAPS THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT
CAN CORRECT ME WE DON'T REQUIRE
WE ASK SO WHAT WE'VE BEEN DOING
RATHER THAN GOING INTO SOME
AMORPHOUS FUN WE'VE ACTUALLY
BEEN WE HAD A LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT WHO HAS DONE CITY
PARK WORK AND WE'VE BEEN
WORKING WITH CITY PARKS
DEPARTMENT TO IDENTIFY THOSE
AREAS OF THAT PARK WHICH NEED
THE MOST HELP AND SO WE WOULD
BE PARTICIPATING IN REPLACING
THOSE ELEMENTS, THE RODDING
BENCHES THAT THE STREET LIKE
THE PARK LIKE SADAAT TILL WE
HIT THAT THRESHOLD.
SO WE'RE ACTUALLY THAT YOU'RE
SEEING THOSE IMPROVEMENTS
HAPPEN AS THE BUILDINGS ARE GOT
IT.
ALL RIGHT.
SUPER AND THE THAT MULTIPLIER
IS ROUGHLY WHAT WE ASK OF TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE OUR
INVESTMENT IN OUR PARKS IS
COMMENSURATE AS WE'RE ADDING
PEOPLE THAT OUR PARKS ARE
KEEPING PACE WITH THAT GREAT.
UM LET'S THINK UM PUBLIC PARK
ON THE I ALSO JUST WANT TO SAY
I THINK THE LOCATION OF THE
BIKE ROOMS ALONE IS SOMETHING
THAT WE DON'T LIKE WE DON'T
REQUIRE BUT I THINK IT'S GREAT
BUT IT'S LIKE THEY ARE EASILY
ACCESSIBLE THAT THERE'S AN
ENTRANCE INTO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING FROM THEM.
I THINK THAT THAT IS INSPIRED
AND I I'M INTRIGUED BY THIS BAR
IN THE BIKE ROOM AND IT'S VERY
INTRIGUED.
SO IN SUMMARY, ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I THINK ABOUT IS IS
BUT AGAIN, WHAT ARE WE WHAT ARE
OUR STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF A
NUDE AND ALSO ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT DIDN'T COME UP IN THIS
DISCUSSION OF A NUDE QUITE AS
MUCH ALTHOUGH IT CAME UP JUST A
LITTLE BIT IS IS OUR KIND
OF PUBLIC BENEFITS THAT ARE
OFFERED COMMENSURATE WITH WITH
THE BASE OF WHAT IS THERE RIGHT
NOW.
AND THERE ARE SOME MEASURES FOR
THAT FOR EXAMPLE FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING CONTRIBUTION THAT WE
THAT IS A STANDARD BUT THIS
BALANCING ACT MY SENSE IS IT IS
LIKE THIS IS A IT'S NOT ANY ONE
THING I WOULD SAY THAT THIS
MAXES OUT ON THE YOU KNOW, IT'S
NOT LIKE IT'S ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT MAXED OUT ON
SUSTAINABILITY.
IT IS PROVIDING ADDITIONAL
AFFORDABILITY OR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING CONTRIBUTION.
BUT IT'S NOT LIKE KNOCKING IT
OUT OF THE PARK.
BUT I THINK THAT THERE'S A
COMBINATION OF THINGS AND AGAIN
WHAT THIS ENTIRE BLOCK COULD
ALLOW IS SOMETHING THAT'S HALF
THE HEIGHT BUT COVERING THE
ENTIRE THING AND I THINK THAT
THAT THE ARRANGEMENT OF THIS
BUILDING AND THE AND THE
THINKING ABOUT HOW MANY CURB
CUTS THERE ARE IS REALLY
THOUGHTFUL.
AND SO I THINK COLLECTIVELY IT
IS PROVIDING THAT BENEFIT.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I'M
EXCITED TO SUPPORT AGAIN.
THANK YOU.
THE STAFF REPORT WAS REALLY
HELPFUL IN IN LAYING OUT WHAT'S
THERE AND HOW THIS IS THE SAME
OR DIFFERENT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER MILLS
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONER
ADAMS.
SO TO ECHO THOSE COMMENTS ABOUT
THE STAFF REPORT, I THOUGHT IT
WAS EXCELLENT AND THOUGHTFUL
AND CAREFUL.
I AGREE WITH THE ANALYSIS IN
IT.
I INTEND TO VOTE TO RECOMMEND
APPROVAL BUT I DO WANT TO STOP
AND NOTE THE OBJECTION FILED BY
MR. DERICA.
I AGREE WITH THE CLAIM THAT THE
UDC REQUIRES A CONSIDERATION
OF WHETHER THE DEVELOPMENT WILL
HAVE A DETRIMENTAL IMPACT ON
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES.
AND I WANT TO TAKE A MOMENT TO
ADDRESS THE ISSUES RAISED IN
HIS LETTER AND EXPLAIN WHY I'M
VOTING TO RECOMMEND APPROVAL IN
SPITE OF THESE FACTS SO THE UDC
REQUIRES THAT WE CONSIDER
WHETHER THERE IS A DETRIMENTAL
IMPACT DOESN'T DEFINE THAT BUT
IT ALSO DOESN'T REQUIRE AND
THIS IS CONTRARY TO THE CLAIMS
IN THE LETTER THAT WE QUANTIFY
OR INVESTIGATE THOSE THOSE ARE
FACTS.
WE HAVE TO CONSIDER THEM AS
PART OF OUR ANALYSIS AND I
THINK I THINK WE ARE THE LETTER
IDENTIFIES FOUR POTENTIAL
IMPACT SHEILD REDIRECTED
PRECIPITATION SOURCES,
ADDITIONAL WIND AND THE
LOCATION TO DUMPSTER'S I THINK
INTERPRETING DATA IN EFFECT IN
THE UDC TO MEAN THAT AP CANNOT
CHANGE THE DIRECTION OF THE
WIND CANNOT IMPACT THE WAY THAT
PRECIPITATION FLOWS, CANNOT
BLOCK THE SUN, CANNOT GENERATE
NEW REVENUES RECEPTACLES WOULD
MEAN THAT IT IS FUNCTIONALLY
NEVER BE APPROVED OR COULD ONLY
BE APPROVED OF THE KIND
OF ANALYSIS THAT THE LAW BY ITS
TERMS DOESN'T REQUIRE.
AND I THINK WHEN WE LOOK AT THE
PREVAILING ZONING ON THE SITE
THAT ONLY UNDERSCORES THIS
CONCLUSION A PROJECT TO BE
BUILT ON THE SITE TODAY BY
WRIGHT THAT ALTHOUGH NOT AS
TALL AS THIS PROJECT WOULD
STILL BE QUITE TALL TALL ENOUGH
TO GENERATE ALL OF THE EFFECTS
LISTED IN THE LETTER TO SOME OR
PERHAPS ALL OF THE DEGREE THAT
THIS PROJECT WOULD.
AND I DON'T THINK IT'S
REASONABLE TO INTERPRET THE UDC
TO FORBID APPROVAL TO DISTRICT
BECAUSE IT MIGHT GENERATE THESE
THINGS IN THIS MANNER
PARTICULARLY WITH THE
PREVAILING ZONING TO FIND A WAY
THAT IT IS SO IT THAT AGAIN I
JUST WANT TO SAY THAT THIS IS A
FANTASTIC PROJECT BUT I THINK
THE CORRIDOR HERE HAS STRUGGLED
FOR YEARS FOR LACK OF DENSITY.
WHEN I WAS A STUDENT I LIVED
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THIS
PROJECT ON STATE AND ITS IT WAS
ASTONISHING TO ME AT THE TIME
THAT RESTAURANTS AND BARS
COULDN'T STAY OPEN ON ON THESE
STREETS AND THAT'S BECAUSE
THERE WEREN'T ENOUGH STUDENTS
THERE'S TOO MUCH LOW DENSITY
HOUSING IN THIS AREA TO SUPPORT
VIABLE RESTAURANTS, BARS, THE
KIND OF THINGS YOU SEE ON AT
THE UNIVERSITY.
SO I'M HAPPY TO SEE THAT WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE ADDITIONAL
DENSITY FINALLY IN THIS AREA.
A PERSONAL NOTE AS WELL.
I WANT TO NOTE THAT THERE WAS
A, UM, STUDENT KILLED ACROSS
ACROSS THE STREET NEXT TO WHERE
I LIVED IN A RUNDOWN BUILDING
THAT'S NOT TERRIBLY UNLIKE THE
BUILDINGS THAT ARE BEING
BULLDOZED TO MAKE WAY FOR THIS
PROJECT.
AND I THINK IT'S FANTASTIC THAT
WE'RE FINALLY REPLACING SOME
OF THIS LEGACY HOUSING STOCK
WITH NEW BUILDINGS THAT ARE
SAFE AND TO CODE .
AND I THINK IF MY KIDS END UP
GOING ATTENDING THE UNIVERSITY
OF IF I'M LUCKY ENOUGH TO HAVE
KIDS THAT ATTEND, I WANT THEM
LIVING IN BUILDINGS THAT ARE
SAFE.
SO I'M HAPPY TO SEE THIS
PROJECT AND HAPPY TO VOTE TO
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU ALSO NO DISH.
THANK YOU CHARLIE.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
I WAS HOPING YOU WOULD ADDRESS
THAT.
I WANTED TO COME BACK TO THE
QUESTION OF THE PUBLIC BENEFIT
THAT COMMISSIONER MILLS RAISED
IN.
I THINK THAT THIS IS WHAT I WAS
TRYING TO SAY IN MY COMMENTS
THAT THE PUBLIC BENEFIT NEEDS
TO BE PROPORTIONAL TO THE
INCREASE THAT'S ASKED FOR.
AND IF WE THINK ABOUT THE
INCREASE IN TERMS OF HEIGHT
ALONE, IT FEELS LIKE OH THIS IS
A VERY BIG INCREASE.
BUT IF WE THINK ABOUT THIS
INCREASE IN TERMS OF DENSITY
AND IF WE THINK ABOUT WHAT WE
ARE GETTING FOR THE INCREASE IN
DENSITY FOR A TWO POINT SIX
TIMES INCREASE IN DENSITY, WE
ARE GETTING TEN TIMES THE
DWELLING UNITS.
AND SO THAT'S WHAT I MEAN TO
SAY THAT WHAT THE DEVELOPER IS
ASKING FOR AND WHAT IS BEING
DELIVERED IN TERMS OF ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WE WANT
WHICH IS DENSITY IS IN AN
APPROPRIATE BALANCE AND I AGREE
WITH YOU VERY MUCH AND YOU DID
A BEAUTIFUL JOB.
COMMISSIONER MILLS TEASING OUT
FURTHER THE REAL BENEFITS
OF THIS PROJECT THAT PERHAPS
OUGHT TO BE MEMORIALIZED IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS BUT WE'LL
LEAVE THAT TO THE STAFF.
THERE ARE MANY BENEFITS TO THIS
PROJECT THAT TAKEN TOGETHER I
THINK WE ARE GETTING REALLY
QUITE A LOT AND I'M EXTREMELY
EXCITED ABOUT THE PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
I'LL ADD SOME OF MY COMMENTS.
I THINK WHEN THIS FIRST CAME TO
PD HERE I THINK WE GAVE SOME
FEEDBACK THAT SEEMED I THINK
THE WORD NEWS WAS BRUTAL IF I
RECALL.
I FEEL LIKE A LOT OF THAT HAS
BEEN ADDRESSED.
I THINK IT CAME ORIGINALLY AT
SEVENTEEN STORIES IF I RECALL
CORRECTLY AND WE FELT THAT IT
WAS A RECTANGULAR BLOCK BEING
FIXED INTO A YOU KNOW WHAT
COULD A TRIANGULAR KIND OF A
BEAUTIFUL BUILDING WITH WITH A
VISUAL PLAZA THAT I THINK
COMING DOWN STATE STREET.
WHAT IS THE EXPERIENCE THE USER
FEEL LIKE?
AND SO I FEEL LIKE A LOT
OF THOSE ELEMENTS HAVE BEEN
ADDRESSED.
I DO THINK THAT THERE ARE SOME
HARD ANGLES STILL.
SO AS FAR AS WE'VE ADDRESSED
PROPORTIONALITY, I HAVE I'M
GOING TO START ACTUALLY WITH
SOMETHING A LITTLE MORE
DETAILED.
THIS ONE IS DEDICATED TOWARDS
STAFF.
THERE ARE DEVELOPED I'M SORRY.
SO THIS IS IN THE POD LANGUAGE
ITSELF IN THE DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS THERE IS SUCH IT'S A
MINIMUM OF SIX STORIES AND THEN
A MAX OF LIKE A FEAT AND SO
LIKE THE MINIMUM BUILDING
HEIGHT SIX STOREYS THE MAXIMUM
BUILDING SHALL BE FIFTEEN
THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED FEET.
DO WE HAVE A STANDARDIZED LIKE
WHAT ONE STORY LIKE WHAT IS THE
MINIMUM OF SIX STORIES.
SO THIS IS LIKE A YOU KNOW I
MEAN I KNOW THAT SOMETIMES LIKE
THE FIRST STORIES YOU KNOW, 18
FEET AS PRESCRIBED BY YOU KNOW,
CODE BUT IS THERE A PARTICULAR
REASON THAT THE DIMENSIONAL
STANDARD ISN'T JUST LIKE
SEVENTY TWO FEET OR WHAT'S THE
MINIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT KIND
OF A STICKLER SORRY.
IT'S A VERY DETAILED NIT PICKY
QUESTION.
IT WAS MY PROFESSIONAL OPINION
THAT HAVING A MINIMUM NUMBER
OF STORIES WILL GET AT WHAT WE
WANT BETTER THAN PUTTING IN A
NUMBER OF FEET.
I THINK IT'S VERY CLEAR HERE
AND WE ONLY INCLUDE THIS
BECAUSE THEY ARE SAYING THAT A
BENEFIT IS INCREASED DENSITY.
SO YOU KNOW, ALTHOUGH THERE ARE
A LOT OF REASONS WHY THAT WHY
THEY THEY CANNOT THEN GET THE
PUDI APPROVED AND THEN PROBABLY
COME IN WITH A ONE STORY
BUILDING BUT BUT NEVERTHELESS I
I FEEL TO BE HOLISTIC.
I DO WANT TO ADD A MINIMUM
NUMBER OF STORIES AND THIS IS I
THINK IT'S VERY CLEAR SIX
STORIES THEY WOULD HAVE THE
OPTION THEN TO MAKE THOSE
STORIES NINE FEET TALL IF
THAT'S MAYBE THE MINIMUM
BUILDING CODE OR 15 FOOT
STORIES.
RIGHT, RIGHT.
SO I COULD DO THAT.
I AM GOING A LITTLE BIT
OF FAITH BUT I FEEL THAT WITH A
MINIMUM NUMBER OF FEET THERE'S
NOT THEN THAT I THINK THE
EXPECTATION IS LESS CLEAR AND
IF WE WANT DENSITY AND THAT IS
A PURPORTED BENEFIT OF THE
SITE, I THINK THAT SIX STORIES
AND IT COULD BE THAT IS MAYBE
OPEN FOR DEBATE BUT I THINK SIX
STORIES IS A VERY CLEAR
EXPECTATION FOR IF YOU'RE
SAYING IF INCREASED DENSITY
WELL THEN IT NEEDS TO BE AT
LEAST SIX STORIES.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU FOR THE CLARIFICATION
.
OK, AGAIN THAT WAS KIND OF LIKE
A VERY DETAILED LEVEL QUESTION.
I'M GOING TO GO A LITTLE MORE
BROADER AGAIN KIND OF THE
APPLICABILITY OF PUDI I THINK
WE'VE DISCUSSED SO ENCOURAGE
INNOVATION AND LAND USE VARIETY
OF DESIGN LAYOUT.
I DO THINK THAT THE KIND
OF POROSITY OR THE POCKET'S
WITH THE SETBACKS THAT CREATES
ADDITIONAL KIND OF PEDESTRIAN
INTERACTION IS HELPFUL.
I'M ALSO GOING TO ADVOCATE
AGAIN I THINK IT WAS
COMMISSIONER GOOD BRANDLE WHO
SAID THIS IS LIKE THE WORST
INTERSESSION EVER AND SO WE
NEED TO DO OUR PART IN THE
RIGHT OF WAY TO TRY TO MAKE
THIS A MORE FRIENDLY
INTERSECTION.
I'VE SPENT A LOT I'M SORRY.
GO AHEAD.
I DID CIRCULATE AN EMAIL TO THE
COMMISSION BUT I'M LOOKING IN
THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN IN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE THERE IS
ALMOST A MILLION DOLLARS
EARMARKED FOR THIS AREA THAT
DOES INCLUDE CROSSWALK
IMPROVEMENTS.
UM TO GET MORE DETAILS ON IF
THERE'S ANY DELAYS OR ANYTHING
WE WOULD NEED TO CONFER WITH
THEIR COLLEAGUES IN
TRANSPORTATION BUT IT APPEARS
TO ALREADY HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED
AND SOME DOLLARS SET ASIDE
PERFECT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I THINK WE NEED TO DO OUR PART
IN MAKING SURE THAT THE
INTERSECTION IS MORE LEGIBLE TO
THE USERS AND SO ON SITE.
IN ADDITION TO THAT, WE'VE
SPENT A LOT OF TIME LOOKING AT
THE RETAIL SO I DO RECOGNIZE
THE GRILLED CHEESE THERE HAS
BEEN CLOSED FOR QUITE SOME TIME
.
ONE OF THE ONE OF THE MOST
SALIENT VARIABLES TO RETAIL
SUCCESS SUCH THAT HERE IS
CLUSTERING AND SO I WOULD LOVE
TO SEE SOME HEAVY EMPHASIS AT
MONETIZING THROUGH RETAIL STORE
FRONTS BUT ALSO I WILL ALSO ADD
THAT I WAS AT THE MICHIGAN
RESTAURANT LODGING ASSOCIATION
MEETING A FEW WEEKS AGO.
I HAD A CHANCE TO TALK TO A LOT
OF OPERATORS FROM AROUND THE
STATE AND ASKED HEY WOULD YOU
LISA FULLY ELECTRIC SPACE MOST
OF THEM GAVE ME A PRETTY
UNEQUIVOCAL I NEED GAS MY
KITCHEN AND SO THAT'S BEEN AN
INTERESTING KIND OF ADAPTING
SAID I'VE TALKED TO SOME
ARCHITECTS HAVE GIVEN EXAMPLES
OF KITCHENS THAT HAVE WORKED
WITH INDUCTION STOVES AND THAT
HAVE WORKED.
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO GIVE
THOSE KINDS OF LIKE YOU KNOW,
TO DIFFERENT STANDPOINTS THE
OPERATORS, THE PEOPLE THAT YOU
WANT TO LEASE TO HAVE SAID I
DON'T WANT TO LEASE THAT SPACE
AND SO GIVING THE FLEXIBILITY I
THINK IS RESPONDING TO A MARKET
DEMAND LOOKING AT PUDI
ENCOURAGE INNOVATION LAND
VARIETY AND DESIGN LAYOUT.
I THINK THAT'S BEEN THAT'S
CHUCK TO ACHIEVE ECONOMY AND
EFFICIENCY AND USE OF LAND.
I THINK AGAIN THAT'S A CHECK
AND THE USE OF LAND, NATURAL
RESOURCES, ENERGY AND THE
PROVISION OF PUBLIC SERVICES
UTILITIES I THINK THAT'S DONE
TO ENCOURAGE THE PROVISION
OF OPEN SPACE PRODUCTION
OF NATURAL FEATURES.
I THINK THAT'S ALSO BEEN
ACCOMPLISHED HERE PROVIDING
ADEQUATE HOUSING, EMPLOYMENT
SHOPPING OPPORTUNITIES.
YES.
PARTICULARLY RESEARCH THE NEEDS
OF THE RESIDENTS OF THE CITY.
WE DID GET THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN UPDATE THAT SAID THAT WHAT
?
SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT OF THE
GROWTH IN THE LAST 40 YEARS
HAVE BEEN ACTUALLY
PREDOMINATELY STUDENTS.
THEY ARE A BIG PART OF THE CITY
EXPANDING SUPPLY OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SIX AND A HALF MILLION
DOLLARS I THINK AGAIN WE
APPRECIATE THE EXTRA POINT
ADDED TO THAT.
WE HAVE DISCUSSED VERY
SPECIFICALLY THE PORTION ABOUT
PROPORTION AND I THINK THAT WAS
A BIG DISCUSSION WITH RESPECT
TO THE CHURCH STREET AND SO BUT
I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT THAT IT IS
KIND OF A COMBINATION ITEMS IN
A HOLISTIC FASHION ARE NOT
GOING TO READ THE ENTIRE LIST.
THE ONE THING THAT I AM GOING
TO KIND OF MENTION IS
ACCOMMODATE DEVELOPMENTS WITH
I'M SORRY THE IMPROVEMENT
OF EXISTING SITES AND BUILDINGS
THAT WILL BE DEVELOPED THE
COMPATIBLE WAY WITH SURROUNDING
USERS.
AND SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
ACTUALLY NOTED THAT I DIDN'T
NECESSARILY SEE HERE AND SOME
OF THE OTHER ONES WE'VE SEEN
HOW LARGER TALLER BUILDINGS
WHEN YOU'RE WORKING AGAINST A
GRADE.
RIGHT.
SO LET'S SAY THAT IT'S THE
GRADE COMING DOWN FROM PACARD
AND FOURTH AND FIFTH COMING
DOWN TO LIKE THE THE ELBEL
FIELD FOR EXAMPLE, WE'VE SEEN
HOW DEVELOPMENTS HARNESS THE
OVERALL GRADE WE
DIDN'T REALLY
SEE THAT HERE AND THERE IS A
GREAT DIFFERENCE HERE.
RIGHT.
SO IT'S IT'S COMING DOWN FROM
RIGHT FROM STATE TO STATE WELL
DOWN TOWARDS A MINOR AMOUNT
OF MAYBE FIVE FEET FROM THE PAC
OR THE STATE BUT NOTHING LIKE
THE FOURTH THE OH SURE.
WELL WHEN I THINK OF LIKE
WALKING DOWN FROM THE FORD
SCHOOL DOWN TO LIKE HOOVER,
I'VE ALSO BIKED UP THERE SO I
KNOW FOR SURE NORTHPARK YEAH
RIGHT.
BUT I'M I'M KIND OF TALKING
ABOUT THE VISUAL PLAZA AS A
STUDENTS KIND OF COMING DOWN
THAT WAY AND WHAT THEY KIND
OF MET WITH THAT STUDENT
EXPERIENCE IS SOMETHING THAT I
THINK A LOT ABOUT THE
COMPATABILITY AT THE
SURROUNDING USES.
I DO WANT TO GIVE CREDIT TO THE
COMMENT ABOUT THE SEVEN STORIES
THE SURROUNDING BUILDINGS.
I THINK THE TALLEST ONE IF I
CAN RECALL IS ABOUT FIVE
STORIES AND SO IT WAS
PARTICULAR THAT WE DIDN'T SEE
THE COMPARISON OF THE OVERALL
BUILDING RELATIVE TO THE THE
OTHER BUILDINGS THAT ARE KIND
OF NEARBY AND SO I DO WANT TO
MAKE A MINOR POINT THAT THE
SCALING STILL DOES SOMEWHAT NOW
IN MY MIND.
BUT GIVEN THE YOU KNOW, THE
HOUSING CRISIS THAT WE HAVE AS
WELL AS A PROPORTIONALITY
OF THINGS BEING OFFERED, WE
HAVE TO TAKE THAT INTO
CONSIDERATION AS WELL.
SO OVERALL WHAT I WANTED TO SAY
WAS FROM THE 17 OF THE 14 I
THINK THIS ISN'T QUITE AS
BRUTAL BUT THAT IT STILL DOES
FEEL SOMEWHAT OUT OF STILL A
LITTLE OUT OF SCALE.
BUT WE ALSO KNOW THAT
CONSTRUCTION COSTS ARE HIGH AND
WE HAVE TO BE ABLE TO SCALE IN
ORDER TO MAKE THESE PROJECTS
WORK.
SO ALL THAT TO SAY I APPRECIATE
EVERYONE'S THOUGHTFUL COMMENTS
HERE.
PROCEDURALLY SPEAKING, THIS IS
A RECOMMENDATION TO CITY
COUNCIL NOT SO PLAN B RIGHT.
BUT IT'S GETTING APPROVED HERE.
SO WHATEVER WE VOTE HERE IS A
RECOMMENDATION.
SO WITH THAT DO I HAVE ANY
OTHER COMMISSIONERS THAT WANT
TO PROFFER THOUGHTS COMMENTS A
PETITIONER AS WELL?
YEAH, ABOUT MESOMORPH OF MY
MICROSOFT JUST LIKE A LITTLE
MR. ADAMS COMMENT.
I BELIEVE WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS
THAT IN ORDER FOR THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS TO JIBE WITH
WHAT OUR CLIENT HAD DISCUSSED,
IT WOULD HAVE TO SAY I'M
JEWELRY BACKUP HOT WATER HEAT
COMMA RESTAURANT USE COMMA
EMERGENCY POWER GENERATION.
YES, USE THAT AS WE WOULD DO
THAT AS A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT OR
WE COULD JUST FIX IT WAS
BETWEEN NOW AND COUNCIL
WHATEVER YOU WANT WE JUST WANT
TO KNOW WHICH WHAT WE'RE
SUPPOSED I'M JUST FLAGGING IT
IF YOU WANT TO FIX IT STAFF GO
AHEAD.
I'M HAPPY TO RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF WHAT YOU'VE PROPOSED BUT
GIVEN THE GIVEN THE COMMENTS I
HEARD I DIDN'T WANT TO LET THE
NIGHT GO WITHOUT MENTIONING
THAT I SAW AN INCONSISTENCY
BETWEEN THE USE AS I WAS
HEARING AND WHAT WAS WRITTEN IN
THE LAW THAT WILL APPLY TO THE
DISTRICT PLAN OR LETTER.
YEAH, I JUST I'M HAPPY TO WORK
ON THAT LANGUAGE BUT I WOULD
LIKE TO JUST ABSENT A
MODIFICATION TO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS I WANT
TO SET THE STAGE TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE CAN REPRESENT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION'S
PERSPECTIVE ON THIS CHANGE.
I'M NOT SEEING CONCERN ABOUT
MODIFYING THAT LANGUAGE TO
SPECIFICALLY ACCEPT THE RETAIL
SPACES AND EMERGENCY BACKUP
POWER SO IF I MAKE A
CLARIFICATION AS IF THAT IS NOT
THE CASE, I WOULD I WOULD
SUGGEST THAT YOU MAKE A MOTION
TO MODIFY THAT LANGUAGE AS YOU
WOULD LIKE TO RECOMMEND IT TO
THE COUNCIL.
GOT IT.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT
FEEDBACK.
WOULD ANY COMMISSIONER
COMMISSIONER APRON'S IT'S NOT A
BIG ENOUGH FACTOR TO CHANGE MY
VOTE BUT I JUST WANT TO LOG MY
DISSATISFACTION WITH THOSE
ADDITIONS.
I WAS EXCITED COMING INTO THIS
THAT WE WERE BEING KIND OF BE
OFFERED THE POSSIBILITY OF AN
ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING PERIOD
AND THEN WE'RE GOING TO LEAVE
THE TABLE WITH A MADE ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING EXCEPT FOR
THESE THREE BIG THINGS.
SO I DON'T YEAH, I DON'T SENSE
THAT THERE AND I HEARD THE
PETITIONERS SAY THAT HE COULD
LIVE WITH ACTUALLY NO GAS IN
THE RETAIL SPACE BUT I DON'T
SENSE FROM MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS THAT THERE'S AN
APPETITE TO CHANGE THAT BUT I
JUST WANTED TO VOICE THAT THANK
YOU.
I WOULD ENTERTAIN OTHER
COMMISSIONERS THOUGHTS ON THAT
MATTER.
LEO.
I WOULD JUST POINT OUT THAT THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IS A
DOCUMENT WHERE WE MEMORIALIZE
OFFERS MADE BY APPLICANT BY
APPLICANTS.
IT SERVES AS BOTH IT REFLECTS
NEEDS THAT ARE OFFSITE THAT ARE
NOT THAT DO NOT SHOW UP ON THE
SITE PLAN AND IT MEMORIALIZES
OFFERS MADE IN A DIFFERENT SORT
OF DEVELOPMENT.
WE DO HAVE PARKED CONTRIBUTIONS
THAT WE REQUEST IF A DEVELOPER
AGREES TO PROVIDE THAT THAT'S
WHERE WE MEMORIALIZE IT AND
THEN IT BECOMES BINDING.
NOTE THAT THE DEVELOPER HAS
OFFERED TO CONTRIBUTE ONE POINT
SIX DOLLARS MILLION AND I CAN
FOLLOW UP WITH VARIOUS SPECIFIC
DETAILS BUT THEY'VE OFFERED TO
DO THESE PARTICULAR UPGRADES.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT
SHOWS UP IN THE DEVELOPER SORRY
ON THE SITE PLAN BUT THEY'VE
OFFERED SO I WOULD AMEND AND
THIS IS A LATE ADD RELATIVE TO
THE DRAFT DATE OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THIS
WOULD BE SOMETHING I WOULD BE
ADDING TO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT TO MEMORIALIZE THE
OFFER SO THEY'RE GOING THEY'VE
OFFERED I WILL HOLD THEM TO
THAT NOW THIS WOULD BE FURTHER
WORK NEEDS TO FURTHER REVISIONS
NEED TO GO INTO SUBMISSION
OF REGULATIONS TO ALLOW THEM TO
DO THE GAS TO OPERATE FOR
EMERGENCY POWER EMERGENCY
GENERATOR OR TO GAS POWER THE
THE RESTAURANT.
BUT I THINK THAT YOU CAN HAVE
SOME ASSURANCE THEY'VE OFFERED
TO MAKE GRID IMPROVEMENTS AND
WE WILL MEMORIALIZE THAT IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
WE CAN'T I DON'T THINK IT'S
FAIR.
I DON'T THINK WE CAN REQUIRE
THEM THEN TO MAKE SURE THAT
THOSE IMPROVEMENTS COME IN ON
TIME.
RELET ON TIME.
BUT I DO WANT TO POINT THAT OUT
THAT THERE THERE'S PROBABLY A
LITTLE MORE ASSURANCE WE CAN
MAKE SURE THAT THEY FACILITATE
THOSE IMPROVEMENTS AND I DO
WANT TO RECOGNIZE AND GIVE THEM
CREDIT FOR THAT.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE CAN MAKE
SURE THAT THEY HAPPEN IN TIME
RELATIVE THAT BUT WE CAN THERE
IS A WAY TO CODIFY THAT OUTSIDE
OF THE REGULATIONS.
MR. LEO, JUST A QUICK
CLARIFICATION QUESTION IS
THERE'S NOTHING THAT I SAW IN
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH
RESPECT TO THE ONE POINT SIX
DOLLARS MILLION GRID.
IS THAT ANOTHER?
THERE IS NOT BECAUSE BECAUSE
OF THE INVOLVEMENT AGREEMENT
WAS WRITTEN BEFORE I KNEW ABOUT
THIS CALL.
ALL RIGHT.
I WOULD JUST SAY THAT THIS
WOULD BE ANOTHER OFFER THAT
THEY HAVE MADE AND I WOULD
THANK THEM FOR IT AND THEN ADD
IT IN TO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT.
OK, COMMISSIONER NILS, THANK
YOU COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
RIGHT.
I GOT YOUR LAST FOR DOING THE
DETAILED READING LIKE I
CERTAINLY I CAME IN HAVING READ
THE STAFF REPORT WITH THE
EXPECTATION THAT THERE WERE THE
CARVE OUTS FOR THESE COUPLE
OF THINGS.
I AM THE PERSON WHO USUALLY
SIGNS LET NOT LOOK THINGS TO
THE NATURAL GAS LINES BECAUSE
IT MAKES IT THEN HARDER FOR US
TO GET OFF OF NATURAL GAS.
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT CERTAINLY
THE ADDITION TO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL OR NOT TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT GIVES ME
A WHOLE BUNCH MORE COMFORT THAT
THERE IS MORE THAN A GOOD FAITH
EFFORT BEING TAKEN TO TRY TO
MAKE THIS NOT AS ON THIS I
STILL WITH THESE CARDS I WOULD
SAY THIS IS NOT SUSTAINABILITY
LIKE NO ONE PRIORITY BUT IT'S
AGAIN WITHIN A SUITE OF THINGS
SO I AM REALLY PERSONALLY
COMFORTABLE CHANGING THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS TO
MEMORIALIZE WHAT'S IN THE STAFF
REPORT AND THEN ADDING INTO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
WHAT WE HEARD HERE AT THE TABLE
TONIGHT LIKE THAT'S THE BALANCE
RIGHTS OF ALLOWING THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS TO ALLOW FOR
THE RESTAURANT COOKING AND
BACKUP GENERATOR BUT KNOWING
THAT THERE WHAT WE WERE HEARING
ABOUT THE DD CONTRIBUTION IS
SOMETHING THAT IS REAL, I THINK
WHEN WE MAKE SUCH CHANGES LIKE
THIS THOUGH AGAIN I THINK
SEEMED FRIENDLY WITH BASED ON
WHAT YOU WERE SAYING, I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT'S
OK.
OK, PLEASE GO AHEAD.
I AGREE WITH THAT.
I'M FINE PUTTING THE WORKING ON
LANGUAGE TO GO INTO THAT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
OK, IT'S COMMISSIONER LEATHERBY
THE OFFER.
SO I THINK FOR ME IN THIS CASE
I WANT THAT RETAIL TO BE
SUCCESSFUL AND WE'VE HAD A LOT
OF LARGE APARTMENT BUILDINGS
WHERE THERE IS NO RETAIL TENANT
AND SO WHATEVER WE CAN DO TO
MAKE THAT RETAIL AS SUCCESSFUL
AS POSSIBLE AND YEAH, THE
RETAIL RETAIL BUT ALSO THE GAS
LINE GOES RIGHT BY THIS PLACE,
THIS BUILDING WE'RE NOT RUNNING
NEW GAS LINES ACROSS FIELDS AND
LIKE THIS IS JUST GOING TO BE
SORT OF OUT OF THE SIDE.
SO I DON'T THINK WE'RE DOING
HAVING SOME GAS HERE IS NOT AS
BIG A DEAL AS SORRY AS IF WE
WERE YOU KNOW, IF IT'S AN
ELECTRIC BUILDING THESE CARVE
OUTS OUT IN A FIELD SOMEWHERE.
THANK YOU.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE WE ARE IN NEED
OF A MOTION TO AMEND THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS TO
INCLUDE RESTAURANT COOKING OR
RETAIL SPACE TO EXCEPTION.
YES, I THINK THE MOTION IS TO
AMEND THE REGULATION TO INCLUDE
THE LANGUAGE IN THE STAFF
REPORT ON PAGE FOUR SUBPART
FOUR UNDER ELECTRIC CREDIT
BUILDING FOLLOWING THE COMMA
AND EXCEPT FOR A NATURAL GAS
EMERGENCY BACKUP GENERATOR,
RESTAURANT COOKING AND
AUXILIARY HOT WATER GENERATION
DURING PERIODS WHEN DEMAND
CANNOT BE MET BY THE AVAILABLE
ELECTRIC SUPPLY THAT I THINK
ENCOMPASSES THE PROPOSAL THAT
THE PETITIONER MAKES WILL
PERFORM THE REGULATIONS TO
THEIR INTENDED USE.
DO I HAVE A MOTION?
YES, I'LL MAKE IT TO HAVE A
SECOND CALL TO NO DISH.
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION OF THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO INCLUDE A
SUBSECT AND FOR ELECTRIC
BUILDING THE THE ADDITION
OF EXCEPT FOR A NATURAL GAS
EMERGENCY BACKUP GENERATOR
RESTAURANT COOKING AUXILIARY
HOT WATER GENERATION ONLY
DURING PERIODS WHERE DEMAND
CANNOT BE MET BY THE AVAILABLE
ELECTRIC APPLY TO THE REGS
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS, WHAT ARE
WE ALSO DISCUSSING A DIFFERENT
MOTION THE ONE POINT SIX
DOLLARS MILLION BUT THAT'S
GOING TO BE A SEPARATE MOTION
THAT KIND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION THAT'S MORE APROPOS
TO THE ZONING THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT ACTUALLY I'M SORRY I
CONFUSED BETWEEN SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS AND EVERYONE ANY
DISCUSSION OF MR. MILLS?
I AGREE WITH ALL OF THAT.
I WOULD ONLY MAKE A SLIGHT
AMENDMENT THAT THE SECOND HALF
OF IT'S IN CURRENTLY IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS WHICH IS NOT
ACHIEVABLE GIVEN THE CAPACITY
OF THE GRID IN THE AREA IS THE
BETTER POTENTIAL END OF THE
MOTION AND I DON'T THINK THAT
THOSE ARE INCOMPATIBLE.
I THINK THEY COULD BE SPLICED
TOGETHER.
I WOULD JUST SAY THAT THAT
GIVES UP THE IDEA THAT LIKE WE
PARTICULARLY FOR THE BACKUP
WATER JUMP AUXILIARY OUR WATER
GENERATION LIKE THAT'S THE
THING THAT YOU'RE TRYING TO
AVOID, RIGHT?
LIKE THE ONE POINT SIX MILLION
DOLLARS IS TRYING TO AVOID
THAT.
THE OTHER TWO WILL GO NO MATTER
WHAT EVEN IF IT GETS ALL THEIR
DUCKS.
SO YEAH, OK, START YOUR CLARITY
ON THAT.
OK, GOT IT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS I DON'T HAVE
I DON'T HAVE ANY CONCERNS ABOUT
THAT.
OK GOT IT.
SOUNDS GOOD MYCELIA WILL YOU
JUST FOR THE CLARIFICATION
OF THE COMMISSION WE JUST READ
THAT ONE SECTION THE AMENDMENT
LANGUAGE I DON'T HAVE IT
WRITTEN DOWN BUT I HAVE IT IN
MY HEAD SO SLOWLY AND WE'RE
GOING TO RECORD THIS.
YEP BUT IT WOULD BE TO AMEND
THE SUPPLEMENTARY RELATIONS TO
STATE THAT NO NATURAL GAS
CONNECTION EXCEPT FOR
RESTAURANT COOKING AND
EMERGENCY BACKUP GENERATOR AND
AUXILIARY HOT WATER GENERATION
ONLY DURING PERIODS WHEN DEMAND
CANNOT BE MET BY THE AVAILABLE
ELECTRIC SUPPLY.
OK, DO WE NEED TO DO A VOICE
VOTE OR DO WE NEED A ROLL-CALL
VOTE FOR AN AMENDMENT?
I THINK A VOICE VOTE IS FINE
AND IF IT GETS HARD TO TRACK WE
CAN MOVE TO ROLL CALL.
OK, GOTCHA.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I BUY
ALL THOSE AGAINST THE AMENDMENT
PASSES.
WE'RE BACK TO THE ORIGINAL
MOTION NOW WITH RESPECT TO THE
PVD ZONING DISTRICT
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AS
WELL AS RECOMMENDATION THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY PLANNING CITY
COUNCIL APPROVE THE PLANNING
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
SO ANY OF ANY ADDITIONAL
THOUGHTS, COMMISSIONER MILLS,
IS THIS WHERE SHOULD THERE BE A
MOTION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT THAT SEPARATE BECAUSE
THAT'S IN THE SECOND MOTION?
OK, SO IF I CAN MOVE TO ADD THE
THE CONTRIBUTION LOTTERY,
WHATEVER YOU WANT TO CALL IT
THE ONE POINT SIX MILLION
DOLLARS TO TRY TO MAKE THIS
ALMOST ALREADY ALMOST ALL
ELECTRIC TO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT.
YEAH, I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR.
I DON'T THAT'S NOT LANGUAGE
THAT I WOULD SUGGEST YOU CRAFT
BUT YOU DIRECT US TO
INCORPORATE INTO A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT THE MEMORIALIZATION
OF THAT IN THAT INVESTMENT AND
I INTEND TO WORK WITH DTI TO
ACHIEVE THAT CAPACITY TO ENABLE
FULL BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION.
THANK YOU FOR MAKING A MUCH
CLEARER MOTION.
DOES THAT REQUIRE A MOTION FOR
MY MENTOR OR IS IT JUST A
DIRECTION THAT YOU'RE GETTING
FROM US FOR JUST FOR MY
EDIFICATION?
YEAH, I I MEAN THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT ULTIMATELY IS
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
IT'S A CONTRACT QUITE HONESTLY
IT COULD GO EITHER WAY.
BUT SINCE THE MOTION WAS MADE I
DON'T THINK I DON'T THINK IT
HURTS JUST TO CLARIFY THAT
THAT'S SOMETHING YOU ARE
COMMUNICATING TO THE CITY
COUNCIL AND THEN WHEN WE
MEMORIALIZE IT WE CAN TELL THEM
HEY, THIS IS LANGUAGE OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WANTED TO
SEE MEMORIALIZE TO FOLLOW UP ON
THAT COMMITMENT TO THAT THE
PETITIONER IS MAKING.
OK, HOW EXACTLY DO BY WHICH
MECHANISM ARE YOU RECOMMENDING?
I WOULD RECOMMEND A MOTION TO
MODIFY THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AS COMMISSIONER MILLS
INDICATED TO THAT DIRECT STAFF
TO ADD LANGUAGE THAT INCLUDES
THE COMMITMENT OF INVESTMENT IN
THE ELECTRIC GRID ESTIMATED AT
ONE POINT SIX MILLION DOLLARS
TO BUILD THE ADEQUATE
ELECTRICAL ELECTRIC CAPACITY
FOR THIS BUILDING.
IF THAT PASSES, STAFF WILL WORK
PETITIONER TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT LANGUAGE IS APPROPRIATE.
IT'S GOING TO BE A LITTLE BIT
UNIQUE BECAUSE MOST OF OUR
DEVELOPMENT LANGUAGE IS TIED TO
A MILESTONE WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE'LL BE ABLE
TO DO THAT THE SAME WAY WITH
THIS.
SO JUST THAT DIRECTION TO
INCLUDE THE TASK FORCE WITH
THAT CRAFTING LANGUAGE THEN WE
WILL COMMUNICATE THAT TO THE
CITY COUNCIL.
OK, GOT IT.
UNDERSTOOD IS A POTENTIAL
FINALLY TO THAT PARTICULAR
MOTION TO DIRECT STAFF TO WORK
WITH YOU ON LANGUAGE AND THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
.
YES OK ENOUGH I'M I'M LOOKING
FOR A MOTION TO WHAT WE SAID OH
HEALTH COUNCIL.
NO THIS SECOND THE SECOND
COMMISSIONER WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION WITH RESPECT TO THE
MOTION OF WHAT MR. OF WITH
RESPECT TO DIRECTING STAFF TO
WORK WITH THE PETITIONER
REGARDING THE CONTRIBUTION TO
IMPROVE ELECTRICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE AND CIRCUITS AT
THE CHURCH AND WOOLARD ON THAT
CIRCUIT ANY DISCUSSION I'M
GOING TO CALL FOR A VOICE VOTE
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I.
I ALL THOSE AGAINST MOTION
PASSES WE'RE BACK TO THE
ORIGINAL MOTION IS YES AS
AMENDED TWICE.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER FURTHER
FINAL THOUGHTS WITH RESPECT TO
THIS?
I PROMISED COMMISSIONER I JUST
WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW I DID DO
THE NORMAL COMPARISON THAT I DO
ABOUT HOW THE HEIGHT OF THIS
AND SETBACKS COMPARE AND IT'S
WHAT'S IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS IS VERY, VERY CLOSE
TO WHAT IS THERE.
SO I DON'T THINK AND EVEN IF
THIS BUILDING A GO FORWARD,
ANYBODY ELSE WOULD HAVE TO
BUILD SOMETHING THAT LOOKS
PRETTY MUCH LIKE THIS BUILDING
.
THANK YOU.
LET'S GO TOWARDS ROLL CALL VOTE
ON AND THE MOTION IS PRESENTED
WITH THE TWO AMENDMENTS TO
FIRST TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS AND SECONDLY
DIRECTING STAFF TO MAKE
MODIFICATIONS TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
CLEARLY YES.
THOSE SCHRIEBER AND YES
SECRETARY WISCH YES.
COUNCILMAN REDISH YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
THAT CARRIES MOTION CARRIES
YES.
GOOD LUCK AT CITY COUNCIL
THAT CARRIES MOTION CARRIES
GENERALLY.
GOOD LUCK AT CITY COUNCIL
ALL RIGHT.
GENERALLY.
WITH THAT WE ARE MOVING ON TO
ALL RIGHT.
OTHER BUSINESS WHICH THERE ARE
WITH THAT WE ARE MOVING ON TO
NONE NOT WE'RE MOVING OUT TO
OTHER BUSINESS WHICH THERE ARE
AGENDA NUMBER ELEVEN WHICH IS
NONE NOT WE'RE MOVING OUT TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
AGENDA NUMBER ELEVEN WHICH IS
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
PUBLIC COMMENT.
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA WILL
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA WILL
PRESENT THEN PARTICIPANT TO
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
PRESENT THEN PARTICIPANT TO
HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
STAR NIGHT FOR LISTENING BY
HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
PHONE OR USE THE RIGHT HANDER
STAR NIGHT FOR LISTENING BY
IF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
PHONE OR USE THE RIGHT HANDER
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
IF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND MEETING
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
EIGHT NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND MEETING
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
EIGHT NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
CITY STAFF ALSO OFTEN CALLERS
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
CITY STAFF ALSO OFTEN CALLERS
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
HOST IS ALLOWING TO SPEAK AND
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MUTE
HOST IS ALLOWING TO SPEAK AND
BACKGROUND NOISES AND MOVE TO A
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MUTE
QUIET AREA SO THAT WE CAN HEAR
BACKGROUND NOISES AND MOVE TO A
YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
QUIET AREA SO THAT WE CAN HEAR
OF PARTICIPATION.
YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
OF PARTICIPATION.
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
AT THIS TIME.
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
AT THIS TIME.
THERE ARE NO HANDS RESPONSE
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
CHAIR
.
THANK YOU.
GIVE IT JUST THREE MORE
SECONDS.
THE BUT THAT I'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT HERE ON TO AGENDA
NUMBER TWELVE IS THERE ANY
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
COMMISSIONER WIRCH JUST A QUICK
FOLLOW UP FROM MY EARLIER
QUESTION ABOUT CHURCHES AND THE
SPECIAL EXEMPTION OR USE
EXEMPTIONS.
I WAS NOT AS CLEAR AS I WANT IT
TO BE BECAUSE I FORGOT THAT
THIS IS ONLY REQUIRED IN
RESIDENTIAL OR IN SOME OF OUR
ZONING CATEGORIES NOT IN ALL SO
CHURCHES REQUIRE A SPECIAL
EXEMPTION ACROSS MULTIPLE
DISTRICTS BUT IF THEY'RE
GRANTED THAT LIKE AN OFFICE, A
CHILD CARE CENTER IS AUTOMATIC
ONLY PERMITTED BY CODE .
SO THAT'S WHAT I WAS TRYING TO
CLARIFY WAS COULD THE CHURCH DO
THE DAYCARE CENTER WITHOUT THE
SPECIAL EXEMPTION?
AND THE ANSWER IS NO BECAUSE
THE DWELLINGS ARE ZONED IN ARE
WHERE THEY WOULD NEED THE
SPECIAL EXEMPTION.
IS THAT CORRECT?
YES.
OK, THAT WAS A THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THERE ANY OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS?
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, I'M
WONDERING IF ON OUR LIST
OF POTENTIAL FUTURE THINGS THAT
OUR CITY SHOULD CONSIDER WE
SHOULD WE MIGHT REFERENCE THE
PUBLIC COMMENT THAT WE RECEIVED
TODAY AND THE LIST OF POTENTIAL
CHANGES ASSOCIATED WITH
SUPERBIA COOPERATIVE HOUSING.
YEAH, HAPPY TO LOOK INTO THAT
ONE OF THOSE IS A CONTRIBUTION
THAT I FEAR MIGHT BE AN IMPACT
.
I DON'T KNOW THAT I HAVEN'T
RESEARCHED IT YET BUT IT SEEMED
TO BE INDICATED THAT IT WAS A
FEE THAT IS REQUIRED BY
DEVELOPMENTS TO PAY INTO A FUND
THAT IS REALIZED.
I THINK I WOULD AGAIN I'VE GOT
A LOT TO LEARN BUT MY VERY
COURSE YOU'RE LOOKING THE
DESCRIPTION OF THAT SUGGESTS TO
ME THAT IT MIGHT NOT BE A
VIABLE LEGALLY VIABLE TOOL
AVAILABLE HERE IN MICHIGAN.
BUT YEAH, AND I DO THINK THAT
THERE IS GOING TO BE A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ALONG THAT THROUGH
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PROCESS
WHAT RECOMMENDATIONS DO WE WANT
TO MAKE ABOUT A VARIETY
OF HOUSING TYPES?
YOU KNOW, THE CITY COUNCIL VERY
SPECIFICALLY WANTS US TO LOOK
AT WAYS TO INCREASE OUR HOUSING
SUPPLY AND DENSIFY AND I THINK
LOOKING AT GROUP HOUSING MODELS
WILL BE PART OF THAT
CONVERSATION.
YEAH, IN PARTICULAR I MEAN I
THINK IT STARTS WITH THE THINGS
THAT ARE MORE SQUARELY IN OUR
WHEELHOUSE REDUCING OR
ELIMINATING MINIMUM LOT SIZES
AND SQUARE FOOTAGE REQUIREMENTS
LIKE I THINK THAT THAT'S JUST
IT IS NOT JUST FOR THIS AND SO
MAYBE THAT'S ONE THAT YOU CAN
SPECIFICALLY CALL OUT AND ALSO
TALKING ABOUT THE ZONES IN
WHICH THIS IS ALLOWABLE USE I
THINK IS SOMETHING ALSO THAT
PART OF THERE THE NUMBER
OF UNRELATED PEOPLE IN A UNIT
AND THEN THE NEXT TWO I THINK
THE NEXT ONE THAT THIS MEMO
THAT IS WHAT YOU WERE TALKING
ABOUT THE IMPACT FEE AND
FURTHER THE TENANT OPPORTUNITY
TO PURCHASE.
I DON'T TYPICALLY SEE THAT AS
SOMETHING THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION WOULD DO.
BUT I MEAN IT SEEMS A BIT TO ME
LIKE OTHER UM IT COULD CITY
COUNCIL ACTION THAT'S OBVIOUSLY
PLANNING ADJACENT BUT IS NOT A
UDC CHANGE.
YEAH, BUT I THINK WE BY THE I
THINK I'VE ADDRESSED THIS
BEFORE WITH THE THE OCCUPANCY
LIMITS AND THAT'S ALSO
SOMETHING I THINK THAT'S
APPROPRIATE FOR US TO TALK
ABOUT WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS.
BUT I DO JUST WANT TO REMIND
THE COMMISSION OUR ENTIRE
REGULATORY RESIDENTIAL SCHEME
IS BASED ON THAT UNIT.
IT'S NOT TO SAY THAT THAT IS
THE ONLY WAY THAT IT HAS TO OR
THAT WE CAN'T MODIFY IT.
BUT I JUST I JUST WANT TO
REMIND THAT THAT IS HOW OUR
ORDINANCE IS CONSTRUCTED THAT
DEFINITION OF FAMILY WHICH IS
INCLUSIVE OF OCCUPANCY UNITS
WHEN WE FIND WAYS TO ALLOW
RESIDENCY THAT ISN'T MAYBE A
TRADITIONAL RELATED FAMILY THAT
IS A BUILDING BLOCK OF OUR
SCHEME OF HOW WE REGULATE
HOUSING.
SO JUST AS A REMINDER TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE CONVERSATIONS TO
HAVE I THINK WITH THE CAMERA A
PLANNING PROCESS GOING IN THAT
DIRECTION DEPENDING ON THE
METHODS THAT YOU DO MIGHT BE
VERY MUCH A DRASTIC
RESTRUCTURING OF OUR ORDINANCE.
SO I JUST WANT TO EQUATE THOSE
IT'S NOT IT'S NOT NECESSARILY
JUST SIMPLY GOING IN AND
STRIKING THAT OR EASILY
ADJUSTING IT.
THAT WOULD HAVE A LOT OF A LOT
OF IMPACTS THROUGHOUT THE
BALANCE OF OUR ORDINANCE THAT
WE JUST HAVE TO BE THOUGHTFUL
ABOUT WHAT THOSE ARE AND HOW WE
WANT TO DEAL WITH THEM.
THAT'S COUNCIL MEMBER DESH.
I JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
I THINK THIS MEMO IS IN SOME
WAYS A FOLLOW UP TO THE SERIES
OF CONVERSATIONS THAT MIXED
KELLEY, MR. LEO AND I HAD WITH
THE ICC AND I THINK THAT THERE
MAY BE INTEREST ON COUNCIL IN
JUST HAVING ANOTHER MEETING TO
REVIEW THIS MEMO AND SEE IF
THERE'S ANYTHING I THINK THEY
TRIED TO REDUCE THEIR TASKS AND
FROM THEIR PERSPECTIVE THESE
ARE SMALL FROM MY PERSPECTIVE
FROM THE TIME SPACE WE HAD
MAYBE ONE OF THEM IS SMALL BUT
SOME OF THEM ARE VERY LARGE AND
SO IT MIGHT BE HELPFUL BEFORE
KIND OF PUTTING IT ON A POLICY
OR PLANNING COMMISSION WORKING
LIST IF WE COULD JUST CIRCLE UP
AGAIN AND AND SEE WHERE WE
WHERE WE STAND FOLLOWING WHAT
WE HAD ALREADY TALKED ABOUT.
THANK YOU.
YES, MR. WHITE.
SO MR. LOWRY, IF I'M
UNDERSTANDING YOU CORRECTLY,
YOU'RE SAYING IF WE CHANGE
SECTION FIVE 16 YOU SPECIFIC
STANDARDS SUBSECTION ONE
RESIDENTIAL USES PARAGRAPH A OR
TITLE A RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY
POINT TO LIMITS ON OCCUPANCY
DWELLING UNITS THAT THAT
CHANGES ALL OF THE CODE IF THAT
IS THE CASE, CAN WE GET SOME
LEGAL ADVICE FROM OUR ATTORNEY
TO UNDERSTAND THIS?
BECAUSE I WHEN I FIRST SAT THE
TABLE I ASKED ABOUT THIS AND
IT'S COME UP A COUPLE MORE
TIMES.
I WOULD LOVE FOR IT TO BE IN
OUR ZONING BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE
YOU'RE SAYING IT'S AN
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE OR IT
HAS A TREE.
IT'S I DON'T MEAN TO SAY IT'S
AN UNINTENDED IT'S IT'S A VERY
INTENDED CONSEQUENCE.
WE BUY EVERY DISTRICT THAT WE
REGULATE BY DWELLING UNITS.
THAT IS A THAT IS A WAY THAT WE
DEFINE WHAT A DWELLING UNIT AND
SO I'M NOT TRYING TO SAY THAT
YOU CAN'T ELIMINATE THAT.
BUT WHEN WE SAY YOU HAVE A
WHENEVER YOU SEE ANYTHING IN
OUR DISTRICT THAT IS REGULATED
BY A DENSE DENSITY A NUMBER
OF UNITS THAT'S ALL OF OUR
DISTRICTS THAT IS BASED ON A
DWELLING UNIT THAT DEFINITION
GOES TO DEFINE WHAT WE MEAN BY
THAT ALTERNATE.
IF WE DIDN'T HAVE THAT, I THINK
ONE SCENARIO WOULD BE IS THAT
WE DON'T WE DON'T CARE IF YOU
HAVE IF YOU ARE IN AN HOUR ONE
ZONE CURRENTLY UNDER OUR
CURRENT WITHOUT THAT DEFINITION
IT MEANS MAYBE YOU COULD HAVE A
60 60 BEDROOM HOME AS OPPOSED
TO A FOUR OR FIVE BEDROOM HOME
WITHIN THAT OR SIX BEDROOM HOME
DEPENDING ON WHAT ZONING
DISTRICT AROUND.
AND SO THAT IS THAT WAS THAT
WAS A FRAMEWORK THAT WHEN OUR
ORDINANCE WAS CRAFTED THOSE TWO
THINGS WERE USED COMBINED AS
THEY'VE HAD AN IMPACT ON
MACING, THEY'VE HAD AN IMPACT
ON DENSITY DENSITY
OF POPULATION.
AND SO I DON'T MEAN TO SAY THAT
IT'S NOT INTENTIONAL.
IT'S VERY INTENTIONAL.
IN FACT THAT DEFINITION HAS HAD
REPERCUSSIONS FOR BETTER OR
WORSE ACROSS THE STATE BECAUSE
IT IS KIND OF HOW YOU DEFINE A
FAMILY CAN BE REALLY
CHALLENGING FROM A LEGAL
PERSPECTIVE.
OURS OURS WAS SORT OF THE CASE
LAW THAT SORT OF THAT SET A LOT
OF THAT STAGE.
SO TO TO ELIMINATE THAT OR
MODIFY IT, IT'S JUST TO
RECOGNIZE THAT THAT HAS
IMPLICATIONS TO EVERY TIME YOU
SEE A NUMBER OF DWELLING UNITS
ANYWHERE ELSE IN THE CODE NOT
NOT THAT THERE'S NOT CHANGES.
I JUST I JUST WANT TO BRING
THAT UP TO THAT IS IT IS VERY
FOUNDATIONAL TO HOW IF YOU WERE
TO STRIKE THAT NOW OUR ENTIRE
ZONING FRAMEWORK WOULD BE VERY
DIFFERENT RIGHT NOW AND WHAT
COULD BE ACHIEVED AND WHAT
CAN'T BE ACHIEVED?
YES, I THINK I WOULD LIKE IF
IT'S POSSIBLE FOR US TO GET
EITHER A MEMO OR ONE OF THOSE
PRIVILEGED CONVERSATIONS THAT
WE CAN UNDERSTAND THE
IMPLICATIONS OF THIS BECAUSE I
DON'T KNOW THAT IT NEED TO BE
PRIVILEGED BUT I DON'T KNOW I'M
NOT A LAWYER AND SO I BECAUSE I
WOULD YOU KNOW TO ME WHAT I
SAID AT THE TABLE I WAS LIKE
WHAT IS THIS FOR?
LIKE WHY ARE WE TRYING TO KEEP
SIX PEOPLE AS THE MINIMUM THAT
WE'VE SEEN HOW THAT'S AFFECTED
DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE WE GET
THESE SIX BEDROOM UNITS THAT
GOT DEVELOPED STANDARD BECAUSE
OF WHERE IT IS AND SO IF WE CAN
GET SOME GUIDANCE ON THIS THAT
IS MORE THAN YOU KNOW THAT
WOULD REALLY HELP US UNDERSTAND
HOW WOULD IMPACT OUR CODE .
THANK YOU.
YES.
MYCELIA I DO WANT TO MENTION I
I THINK THE RIGHT SOLUTION WE
CAN FOLLOW UP WITH THAT AS
WELL.
I THINK THOUGH THE RIGHT
SOLUTION IS TO SIT DOWN AGAIN
WITH THE STUDENT AFTER
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL.
I THINK THEIR HEART IS
ABSOLUTELY IN THE RIGHT PLACE
AND I AGREE WITH THEIR GOALS
BUT THEY ARE UM THEY ARE NOT
INTERPRETING ZONING ORDINANCE
CORRECTLY AND THEY'RE IF YOU
LOOK DOWN THE SAME PAGE THERE,
THE OCCUPANCY STANDARDS DO NOT
APPLY TO
GROUP HOUSING
FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES,
STUDENT COOPERATIVE HOUSING
EMERGENCY SHELTERS OR
CONVALESCENT HOMES.
SO SO THEY HAVE I BELIEVE IT'S
WORTH PART OF MY PART OF MY
ASSIGNMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY
IS TO MAKE SURE THAT EVERYONE
UNDERSTANDS THE ZONING
PARAMETERS ESPECIALLY BEFORE
YOU SUGGEST CHANGES.
I I DON'T THINK THAT THE
SOLUTION TO THEIR ASK AND I IS
IS THEIR SUGGESTION BUT WE CAN
STILL HELP THEM MEET THEIR
GOALS.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE THE CLARIFICATION.
I'M JUST GOING TO MAKE ONE
CLARIFICATION ON THE RECORD FOR
ONE OF MY COMMENTS THAT I SAID
DURING THE APPLE CARE
DISCUSSION WHICH WAS I HAD SAID
HEY, IT'S POSSIBLE FOR YOU TO
ALSO PETITION FOR THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION YOU I JUST WANTED TO
MAKE ON THE RECORD CLEARLY THAT
WHAT I WAS REFERRING TO WAS ONE
OF THE CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL
BECAUSE OF THE ALLEGATIONS THAT
WOULD BE DETRIMENTAL TO THE
ECONOMIC VALUE.
AND I WAS SIMPLY TRYING TO
CLARIFY THAT I WASN'T
NECESSARILY 100 PERCENT
CONVINCED THAT THAT WAS FACTUAL
BASED ON KIND OF WHAT WAS BEING
SAID.
SO I WANT TO JUST ON THE RECORD
CLARIFY ASIDE FROM THAT ANY
OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS SEEING THAT I'M GOING
TO MOVE TO ADJOURNMENT SECONDED
.
COMMISSIONER WEISS, ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY HEY.
WE ARE ADJOURNED.
>> THANKS